1. Daydreams.
I was sitting in class when I first saw it.

	Miss Weaver had been my teacher for a few months, and was known around Stagwood Elementary for the stack of black hair that rose a foot above her head. Before the school year started, I’d heard a few rumors about her, and within a week I realized that they were all true. For one thing, she did, in fact, wear the same outfit every day; the colors changed, but she always had on striped pants and a striped jacket. For another thing, she was mind-numbingly boring. It was the kind of boring that made your eyes shut without permission. The biggest problem, though, was the stories. She was obsessed with tales of former students who had become some kind of famous. The first couple of times weren’t bad, maybe even kind of interesting. But, by the second week of school she had started repeating herself, just like her outfits.

	By then, I knew all the stories by heart. The professional football player who got excellent marks in Math. The State Senator who was a teacher’s pet. I knew every word. So, instead of trying my hardest to listen, I spent most of class drawing in my notebook.

	Most days, I drew imaginary places and then spent the rest of the time whipped up creatures to live there. They’d have horns where horns don’t go, fur where scales should be, and all the wings. They were odd. And they each had a story that I wanted to tell. But, on that day, I never even got to the first pair of wings. I had barely gotten started when it appeared, and changed Stagwood, and me, forever.

	If it had chosen to press its little green face against any other window, I might not have seen it. And if I hadn’t been trying to decide whether my dragon should have four legs or two, I might not have looked out window at that exact moment, dropping my pencil on the page.

	It was a frog. And it was staring right at me.

	I couldn’t stop looking at the frog and it couldn’t stop looking back. We were locked in a staring contest. Maybe some frogs blinked, but with its eyes smushed against the glass, this one didn’t. Stagwood Forest was just beyond the schoolyard and it was riddled with frogs, but they always avoided people. I knew right away, in a way that I could think better than I could say, that this frog was different.

	I tried to listen back in to Miss Weaver, just in time to hear the end of her story about Martin Shandals, the now-famous comedian. Martin had transferred schools half way through the year, so I always felt to me like that one shouldn’t count. We were supposed to be learning long division, but something had reminded her of Martin. I knew exactly what bad joke she would end the story with, but much less about long division.

	“Whenever he acted up in class I’d say, ‘we’ve got a real comedian on our hands don’t we?’ And I was right!” she said with a guffaw.

	I was certain that Miss Weaver would see the frog within moments, but I was wrong. Nobody did. More importantly, when I looked again to see if it was still there, I noticed something new. Something shiny. And when I realized what it was, I forgot all about class, and Miss Weaver, and Martin Shandals. There was no denying it: the frog had put on a tiny pair of glasses.

	I wanted to lecture it, to explain that frogs don’t wear glasses. It bothered me that it didn’t already know that. On top of that, it had been staring at me for at least five minutes by then. And that seemed to be bordering on rude. Could a frog even be rude? I wasn’t sure. But, the bigger question was why it was so interested in me.

	I wasn't the type of kid who got attention. Teachers always wrote “needs to participate more” on my report cards (with a smiley face to make my parents feel better). I never got into trouble and barely ever stood out on purpose. A few years earlier, I accidentally peed my pants because my zipper had gotten stuck in the bathroom at the last moment. I tried to convince everyone that I had fallen into a puddle at recess. The custodian, Mr. Salazar, charged outside with a mop and brought me with him to point out the puddle. My guess is that we wasted a half-hour looking around at the dry gravel. Luckily, my mom dropped off some new clothes and nobody really noticed my wardrobe change (…or that it hadn’t rained in weeks).

	That’s how it was. Whether I did something spectacular or sneezed myself out of a chair, nobody cared, and almost nobody said my name. As far as school was concerned, all those things had happened to “some kid”. So, why would a frog with glasses jump up on a windowsill to stare at "some kid"?

	Teachers, on the other hand, were a different story. Once her lesson started back up, it didn’t take Miss Weaver long to realize that I wasn’t paying attention. She called me up to the blackboard to make an example out of me.

	“Since you don’t feel the need to listen, why don’t you solve a problem on the board instead?” she said, sitting down at her desk.

	My stomach did a flip. Then it did a flop. The problem would take a minute or two to solve, and being in front of the class always made me nervous. How could I be expected to do anything when there was a spectacled frog staring me down?

	I walked to the right of the equation on the board so that I could check on the frog easily in secret. Despite the distraction, I did my best to focus. But, it wasn’t easy. Halfway through, I saw the frog move towards the front of the classroom. It stopped at the window next to Miss Weaver’s desk. It took me a moment to figure out what it was doing, and another to believe it. It was trying to lift the window!

	Finishing the problem became almost impossible. I made a mistake and then quickly erased it. By the time I looked over again, the window was open. Why should that surprise me? Of course a frog with glasses would also be super strong. The window was only open an inch, but that was enough for it to slip through. I dropped the chalk, and some of my classmates laughed. Bending down to pick it up, I tried convincing myself that when I stood back up again the frog would be gone. “It’s not there. I just think it’s there.”

	When I straightened up, the frog was sitting on Miss Weaver’s left shoulder.

	This was a brave frog.

	Her head blocked the class from seeing it, and I realized that I was still the only one who could. Either the frog was real or my imagination had outdone itself. It wasn’t all that surprising that Miss Weaver didn’t feel it there, because the shoulder pads inside her orange striped jacket were large and fluffy. I had heard that she rested her head on them like pillows during her breaks. I tried to remind myself of the situation. There was a frog sitting on Miss Weaver’s shoulder and nobody else knew it. And I was supposed to be doing math.

	Now that it was closer, I could see the frog better. It didn’t look like some new species of frog to me. It looked like every other frog I had seen (except for the glasses). I wondered if they made contact lenses small enough for a frog. But, it wasn’t the right time to worry about frog vision- that would be a job for a frog eye doctor, anyway.

	I had daydreams all the time when I was drawing, and sometimes I got lost in them. It really was possible, I thought, that my imagination had just carried me off. I tried one last time to explain the frog away as part of an impressive daydream. I concentrated hard, finished the problem, and put the chalk down. The frog couldn’t be real. I shook my head confidently.

	When I turned to Miss Weaver, I saw the frog look me square in the eyes and nod. A moment later, it disappeared into Miss Weaver’s hair.

2. Soy.
I didn’t see the frog for the rest of the day. Maybe it stayed in Miss Weaver’s hair or maybe it jumped back through the window when I wasn’t looking. All day long, I expected her to find it and let out a scream, but she never did.

	When the bell rang, I ran out of the school onto the side of the grass that had the most bushes. I had seen frogs hide in there before, but there was no sign of any. Truthfully, I wouldn’t have known what to do with the frog if I had found it. Would I capture it? Would I ask it questions? If I was caught talking to a frog outside the school, I think people might finally start to remember me, but in a #donttalktothefrogkid kind of way.

	I liked most of the kids in my class just fine, but I was only really close with one. His name was Soy, and he was definitely, without a doubt, my best friend. Soy had kind of reddish-blond hair and a round face. He and I had been friends since preschool, and I knew that I could talk to him about anything. The downside to that was that he also felt he could talk to me about anything. Since he had eight older brothers and two older sisters, his questions were always about things that I didn’t understand and didn’t want to.

	Here’s how it would usually go: Soy’s brothers would talk about older kids things, and then make fun of him for not getting it. He would ask me about it, and we’d look it up. It only took a few Google searches for me to get banned from using the Internet with Soy.

The bottom line was that if I was going to tell anyone about the frog, it would be Soy. I decided that our walk home would be the best chance.

	“Did you see anything outside today during math?” I asked Soy as we started walking.

	“What do you mean? On the grass?” he asked, jumping over cracks in the sidewalk.

	“I mean right outside the window. Like right up against it,” I answered.
 	“Like a person?” he asked, still hopping.

	Soy sat in the row farthest from the window, so it would’ve been possible, but still weird, for someone to walk by without him noticing.

	“No. It’s more like… I saw a frog up against the window," I explained.
 	“Awesome,” he said.
 	“Yeah, but it wasn’t a normal frog. It opened the window and it came in the classroom and jumped on Miss Weaver’s shoulder and it jumped inside her hair,” I spit out.

	Soy stopped jumping and looked at me.

	“That happened… today?” he asked.

	“Yeah, I mean I’m pretty sure. And when I thought I might be making it up, the frog nodded at me,” I said.

	Soy looked confused. I thought I heard something move in the tree above us, but Soy answered before I could look.

	“It nodded at you? I don’t even think frogs have necks, do they?” said Soy.
 	“This one did, I guess. I mean most frogs don’t wear glasses either, but it had those too,” I explained.
 	All of a sudden, Soy seemed a couple steps further away.

	“The frog was wearing glasses?” he asked suspiciously.
 	“Yes,” I shot back.
 	“Why would someone go around putting glasses on frogs?” he asked.

	"I dunno… maybe it bought them on its own,” I replied.

	Soy was standing at least ten steps away now.

	“Right… Well, maybe Miss Weaver will let us look in her hair tomorrow, and we can ask the frog where it got ‘em… So, I think I’m just gonna head back home today instead of coming over. My mom has lots of stuff for me to do. See you later!” Soy said, turning to run away.

	“Soy!” I yelled. “Stop right there. I can prove the frog is real.”

	“Oh yeah? How?” he asked with an eye roll.
 	“It’s sitting on your backpack,” I said.

3. The Treehouse.
Soy had the frog in his hands within seconds. He was always good with outdoorsy stuff like that. His mom was usually busy with his siblings, so Soy was left to play outside a lot. By third grade, he had caught a pet turtle, salamander, and flying squirrel. Unfortunately, his older brothers Rick and Hank stole the squirrel and kept it in their room. Once a week they played a game where Rick threw the squirrel from the second story window, and Hank caught it midair with a trash can as it glided down. Soy tried to get them to stop, but they never listened. It wasn’t until a particularly windy fall day that he caught a gust and flew over their heads to freedom.

	The frog didn’t put up much of a fight. I started to wonder if it actually wanted to be caught.

	“Do you believe me now?” I asked.
 	Soy peaked inside his hands, and then lifted his head with wide eyes. "Well… this frog is wearing glasses. I’ll give you that.”

	Both of our minds were racing with questions.
 	“Let’s bring it to my treehouse, so we can figure this out,” I said.

	I had built most of the treehouse in my backyard myself. My mom and dad insisted on one of them being there when I used certain tools, but that was about it. Building things always made me feel good afterwards, and I had gotten pretty good at it. The treehouse had been done for a while, but there were still a few things I wanted to add to it before winter.

	When we got there, I told Soy to use the elevator. It was really just a rope with a weighted pulley system, but I called it the elevator anyway. We used it when we needed to carry things that we couldn’t bring up on the ladder. I climbed up and then lowered it down for him. All those years of critter-handling had paid off, and he got it inside the treehouse without any problem. I shut the door and quadruple-locked it, so that the frog couldn’t run away (and also to give us some privacy).

	“Okay, Soy,” I said, "let him loose."

	Soy lowered his hands and opened them, letting the frog hop to the floor of the treehouse. I had a small drafting table, drawings, and bits of wood all over, which provided plenty of places for the frog to hide. Luckily for us, it didn’t move at all.

	Instead it looked up at me, and in a loud voice said, “What do you mean, ‘him’?”
 	Soy fell backwards from a crouch onto his rear. The frog was looking right at me, waiting for an answer, but all I could do was shake my head.
 	"It’s rude to assume I’m a ‘he’, don’t you think? I happen to be a girl,” said the frog proudly. Soy was now holding his head with both hands.

	“It can talk!!” he said in disbelief.
 	"Calling me an ‘it’, after I just told you I was a girl, is just plain inconsiderate, Soy!” she insisted.

	I knelt down closer, looking for anything that might make sense of it all. Maybe the frog was a robot? But nothing about the way it moved was robotic. And would a “Made in China” sticker really make me feel better? It… she… had just called my best friend by his first name! Soy was so flabbergasted that he was gnawing on his backpack strap, so I doubted that they had met before.

	“I’m sorry,” I said to the frog, kneeling down, “we didn’t mean anything by it. Truly.”
 	The frog hopped even closer and said, “You’ve always been kind.” Then she whispered, “It’s a powerful thing. Remember that.”
 	“I will,” I said, amazed that I had just gone from meeting a talking frog to taking advice from a talking frog in a matter of seconds.

	“But, um, if you don’t mind me asking, how is it that you can talk?” I said.

	By that point Soy had half of the backpack strap in his mouth.

	The frog crooked her head at me slightly. “Do you think that humans are the only animals that can talk?” she asked.

	I was startled. Was it possible that animals could talk, and somehow no one in the world knew about it? Was everything that I thought about animals wrong? I took a seat on the floor, too. Soy spit out his strap.

	"That’s not okay,” he said. “I tell my pet iguana all of my secrets. If he can talk, I need to know who he’s been talking to.”
 	The frog gave out a little laugh, then she said, “Oh, I’m just kidding. Animals can’t talk any more than humans can flap their arms and fly.”

	I was embarrassed, but mostly relieved.

	“What about some kind of iguana sign language?” asked Soy, still nervous.

	Ignoring Soy's question, I asked the frog, “How is it that you can? Talk, I mean."

	“For starters, I’m not a frog,” she explained. “The only reason that I—”

	Without any warning, there was a knock on my treehouse door.

	“What are you up to in there? Why is this door closed?” asked my mom sternly.
 	I searched my brain for an answer that didn’t have the word frog in it.

	“Soy and I were, um, we were doing homework, and the breeze kept blowing our papers away." I replied.
 	“He’s a clever one” the frog whispered to Soy.

	I gave the frog a signal to be quiet. It may have been the first time in the history of the world that one had spoken, but for the time being, she needed to stop. If my mom heard a girl’s voice, I was worried she might break through the door again. She had a habit of doing that any time something seemed suspicious. It was only a week before that she had seen the smoke from one of Soy’s firecrackers and broken through three locks. I added the fourth the next day, but it was becoming clear to me that metal was no match for “mom strength”. So, for the moment, I needed this frog’s vocabulary to shrink back down to “ribbit”.

	“Well, come on inside the house. There’s a man from the school board here who needs to speak with you.” She lowered her voice and spoke softly into the crack of the door. “He looks pretty official. He’s got a fancy suit and a shiny yellow bowtie. Don’t worry though, he told me me you’ve done nothing wrong.”

	“Yellow?!” screeched the frog.
 	“What was that, honey?”
 	“Oh… I said, ‘Hello!’” I lied, using the best high-pitched voice I could muster.
 	“Honey, ‘Hello’ usually comes at the beginning of conversations. We’re pretty far into this one,” she answered.
 	“Ah, right. I just sometimes forget when you’re supposed to say it,” I replied nervously.

	“Oh… I didn’t realize. Maybe we can work on that, sweetie,” she said, closer to the door than ever. “Because that’s definitely a problem. Just hurry up and come down, please.”

	I heard my mom climb down the ladder, then watched her go back inside the house through the sliding back door. The frog jumped up onto the open treehouse window in a panic. I was amazed at how high she could jump, and knew at that moment that she could have left any time that she had wanted.

	“Whatever you do, don’t mention me,” the frog whispered frantically. “I’ll find you later.”

	And with that, she jumped out the window into a bush below.

4. Tiger Lilies.
I sent Soy home and told him not to say a word until we could agree on a plan. He was too frazzled to argue. Soy walked home along the path behind my house that crossed the woods to his. I had no choice but to head inside. When I slid the back door open, I saw my mom and the man in the bowtie sitting in the living room. She sat smiling by the fireplace, and he sat in the flowery love seat closest to the front door, taking up most of it with his long skinny frame. His tall legs were bent at sharp angles to both sides, just like his elbows. My mom and the man were mid-conversation when I walked in. I saw him notice me from the corner of his eye, but he kept speaking.

	“They’re absolutely beautiful, Mrs. Caelum. I don’t believe I’ve seen lilium bulbiferum that vibrant before” said the man as he touched the lilies that were on the table between them.
 	“Oh, you’re too nice!” said my mom with a giggle.

	My mom wasn’t known for giggling, but flowers were one of her most favorite things in the world. She filled the house with them whenever she could. The most that my dad would say about it was that fake flowers would probably cost less.

	“Does your son have an appreciation for flowers as well?” the man asked, finally turning to look at me.

	His blond hair was pressed firmly against the top of his head, and his pale skin looked almost wet. His grin was toothy… larger than it should be. I felt uneasy. The talking frog had been surprising, odd even, but I preferred it to him.

	“Ah, there you are! Come have a seat and say hello to mister…,” my mother said, stopping for a moment. “What was it again?”
 	“Ream,” he finished. “And it’s a pleasure to meet you, young man.”
 	“Hello,” I said.

	“Well done,” my mom whispered happily at hearing me place my ‘hello’ correctly. “Mr. Ream is from the school board,” she projected, “and he’s here to…”

	Once again she wasn’t sure how to finish her sentence.

	“I’m here to speak with you about Miss Weaver’s class. We’ve begun an initiative where we, the board members, speak directly with students to learn more about their experiences in the school system. We’d like to have an open dialogue between the administration and the children.”
 	“I think that’s just wonderful,” said my mom.

	She was smiling ear to ear, looking for me to agree. I gave a nod, then waited for someone else to speak.

	“Mrs. Caelum, we’ve found that students tend to be more free and honest with their feelings when their parents can’t hear. I assure you, I’ve been trained in creating an atmosphere where students can speak their mind without fear of punishment,” said Mr. Ream.
 	“I see,” said my mom. She turned to me and spoke in her usual kind voice. “I’m going to be right here in the kitchen if you need anything, sweetie. Remember that you can be honest with Mr. Ream, and nothing bad will happen. Okay?”

	I nodded. Mr. Ream followed my mom with his eyes as she walked by him to the kitchen. She’d been right about his suit. It was a dark blue and, from what I could tell, was fancy and expensive. But his bowtie was what stood out. It was a color yellow that I had never seen before, and I could see why she had mentioned it too. As he moved, the light reflected off of it in every direction. It didn’t move like clothes usually do. In fact, it didn’t move at all. I also couldn’t help but notice that he was taller than my mom, even when he was sitting down. When she left the room he turned to me abruptly.

	“Has anything strange happened at school in the past couple of days?”

	I shook my head hard and fast.

	“You can tell me. I’m here to help,” he said in a friendly voice. “You see, I didn’t tell your mom this because I didn’t want to worry her…”

	Now Mr. Ream leaned in closer. His mouth looked larger by the second. I was almost positive that he could eat a whole sandwich in one bite.

	“There’s a...” he said, pausing, “person who has been bothering students. Some little birdies told me that perhaps they’ve been bothering you. ”

	Then he gave the largest smile I had ever seen. Two sandwiches, at least. I knew, deep down, that he meant the frog. That’s why she had acted so funny when she heard about his bowtie.

	“Well, what does the person look like?” I asked shyly.
 	“That’s the tricky part,” he replied, “This... person likes to disguise themselves in different ways. Ways that might even seem impossible.”

	His mouth was only a foot away now. Three sandwiches and a side of fries..

	He continued, “They may even be disguised as an animal."


	My eyes got wide. Mr. Ream’s got small.
 	“You have seen them!” Mr. Ream said, trying to hide his excitement.

	I shook my head defensively. “I didn’t say that, you did."
 	“But you have, haven’t you,” he said sympathetically. “Tell me what happened. It’s for your own safety.”

	I didn’t know what to believe.
 	“What’s so dangerous about her, anyway?” I asked.

	The moment I said it, I wished that I could take it back. I wished that I could grab the words out of mid-air and zip them right back into my mouth. But I knew that’s not how words work.

	“‘Her?’” he said.
 	I couldn’t look at him.

	He spoke sharply in a whisper. “So, it’s true. She has come to see you. Tell me why.”

	I shook my head.

	“Why did she choose to reveal herself to you? Why you? Tell me!” he demanded.

	“It was nothing,” I answered despite myself. “I was just...”
 	“You were just? You were just what?” he prodded.

	I was confused, but I knew beyond a doubt that I did not want to tell him anything more. And I was not going to make the same mistake twice.

	“I was just catching frogs in the woods with Soy and we didn’t know it was a special frog and we caught it by accident, I swear, and she begged us to let her go, so we did,” I said in one breath.

Mr. Ream sat back in his seat and listened to me ramble on.
 “And she wanted nothing to do with us, and made us promise not to tell anyone about her, and… am I in trouble?” I asked, pretending to cry.

	I had learned how to fake cry the year before when I tried out for a small part in the school play. As it turned out, the role of “Weeping Willow” wasn’t even a speaking part. It’s just a tree. No crying required. Still, after forty minutes of standing up on stage, not being allowed to move, I cried a little anyway.

	“No,” he hissed, “you’ve just disappointed me. I thought for a moment that you were the…”

	My mom walked in smiling, with a vase in her hand.

	“Sorry to interrupt but I thought you might enjoy seeing my latest- ” she stopped inner tracks when she saw me.

	“What are you two talking about in here?”
 	“Oh, Mrs. Caelum, your son and I were just —,” Mr. Ream sputtered.
 	“Why is he crying??” my mom asked more forcefully. She rushed to my side to console me.
 	“It’s nothing,” Mr. Ream pleaded, “sometimes these talks can be emotional, and if you wouldn’t mind my asking just a few more questions…”

	The tears were flowing more freely now. I had become the Weepiest Willow in the world.
 	“I would mind,” she said firmly, “and if you’d like to keep your job, you’ll leave right now.”

	Mr. Ream straightened his jacket and grabbed a briefcase from behind the couch. “Yes, of course. Thanks for your time,” he said. He opened the door and turned to me. “Be sure to let me know if your story changes,” he said with an unfriendly glare.

	My mom put her arm around my shoulder.

	“Out!” she shouted.
 	I spent the rest of the night listening to my mom speak on the phone with people from the school district. Apparently, Mr. Ream was highly regarded, but my mom didn't care. She was beyond angry. She yelled at some of the school people and even threatened to call the police once. By bedtime she seemed a little calmer.

	Whatever Mr. Ream wanted with that frog, it wasn’t good. I decided then and there that I wasn’t going to let him get to her.

	The next morning my mom gave me an extra long hug and apologized (for the tenth time) for letting Mr. Ream into the house. I told her (for the tenth time) that it was all right. Soy and I met in front of my house to walk to school, as usual. I hadn’t spoken to him since the treehouse, but it was immediately clear that he had gotten over his backpack-chewing phase.

	“How do you think it learned to talk? She, I mean. How come she could talk?” he asked. Without waiting for answer, he continued, “And how did it know my name? She, I mean.”
 	“I don’t know. Same as you,” I said honestly.
 	“What about the dude with the bowtie?” he asked excitedly.

	“His name is Mr. Ream. Soy… he knew about her,” I said.
 	“About the frog?” Soy asked.
 	“Yeah. He said that he was looking for someone who could disguise themselves as an animal. She was right to warn us. There was definitely something off about him.” I said.
 	“You didn’t tell him anything, right?” asked Soy.

	I looked down at the ground.

	“I accidentally let on that I met her,” I confessed.
 	“You did what?” Soy said in shock.
 	“I didn’t mean to. It came out by accident. And then Mr. Ream grilled me on why she had come to talk to me. Apparently, it’s a big deal that she did.”
 	“So what’d you do? Draw him a picture of it and tell him everything? Are you recording this conversation for him right now? My brothers say if you’re wearing a wire you have to tell me,” Soy said angrily.

	“No. Quit being silly, Soy. I told Mr. Ream that we were catching frogs, found her by accident, and let her go.”
 	“Oh. Okay, that’s not bad actually,” Soy said.
 	“Thanks,” I said with my head still hanging.

	“And if he looks into it at all, the story will check out since I do love catching frogs. In fact, I should catch a few extra this week, just to be safe. So… what now?” Soy asked.
 	“I really don’t know, but we need to find out why that frog’s here and why Mr. Ream is after her,” I answered.
 	“I’m in,” said Soy. “I’d take a frog in glasses over a man in a bowtie any day.”

	It felt good to have Soy on my side.

	“We’ll figure this out together,” he said, patting me on the back.

	My smile faded as he continued to pat…

	He was checking for a wire.

4. Tiger Lilies.
I sent Soy home and told him not to say a word until we could agree on a plan. He was too frazzled to argue. Soy walked home along the path behind my house that crossed the woods to his. I had no choice but to head inside. When I slid the back door open, I saw my mom and the man in the bowtie sitting in the living room. She sat smiling by the fireplace, and he sat in the flowery love seat closest to the front door, taking up most of it with his long skinny frame. His tall legs were bent at sharp angles to both sides, just like his elbows. My mom and the man were mid-conversation when I walked in. I saw him notice me from the corner of his eye, but he kept speaking.

	“They’re absolutely beautiful, Mrs. Caelum. I don’t believe I’ve seen lilium bulbiferum that vibrant before” said the man as he touched the lilies that were on the table between them.
 	“Oh, you’re too nice!” said my mom with a giggle.

	My mom wasn’t known for giggling, but flowers were one of her most favorite things in the world. She filled the house with them whenever she could. The most that my dad would say about it was that fake flowers would probably cost less.

	“Does your son have an appreciation for flowers as well?” the man asked, finally turning to look at me.

	His blond hair was pressed firmly against the top of his head, and his pale skin looked almost wet. His grin was toothy… larger than it should be. I felt uneasy. The talking frog had been surprising, odd even, but I preferred it to him.

	“Ah, there you are! Come have a seat and say hello to mister…,” my mother said, stopping for a moment. “What was it again?”
 	“Ream,” he finished. “And it’s a pleasure to meet you, young man.”
 	“Hello,” I said.

	“Well done,” my mom whispered happily at hearing me place my ‘hello’ correctly. “Mr. Ream is from the school board,” she projected, “and he’s here to…”

	Once again she wasn’t sure how to finish her sentence.

	“I’m here to speak with you about Miss Weaver’s class. We’ve begun an initiative where we, the board members, speak directly with students to learn more about their experiences in the school system. We’d like to have an open dialogue between the administration and the children.”
 	“I think that’s just wonderful,” said my mom.

	She was smiling ear to ear, looking for me to agree. I gave a nod, then waited for someone else to speak.

	“Mrs. Caelum, we’ve found that students tend to be more free and honest with their feelings when their parents can’t hear. I assure you, I’ve been trained in creating an atmosphere where students can speak their mind without fear of punishment,” said Mr. Ream.
 	“I see,” said my mom. She turned to me and spoke in her usual kind voice. “I’m going to be right here in the kitchen if you need anything, sweetie. Remember that you can be honest with Mr. Ream, and nothing bad will happen. Okay?”

	I nodded. Mr. Ream followed my mom with his eyes as she walked by him to the kitchen. She’d been right about his suit. It was a dark blue and, from what I could tell, was fancy and expensive. But his bowtie was what stood out. It was a color yellow that I had never seen before, and I could see why she had mentioned it too. As he moved, the light reflected off of it in every direction. It didn’t move like clothes usually do. In fact, it didn’t move at all. I also couldn’t help but notice that he was taller than my mom, even when he was sitting down. When she left the room he turned to me abruptly.

	“Has anything strange happened at school in the past couple of days?”

	I shook my head hard and fast.

	“You can tell me. I’m here to help,” he said in a friendly voice. “You see, I didn’t tell your mom this because I didn’t want to worry her…”

	Now Mr. Ream leaned in closer. His mouth looked larger by the second. I was almost positive that he could eat a whole sandwich in one bite.

	“There’s a...” he said, pausing, “person who has been bothering students. Some little birdies told me that perhaps they’ve been bothering you. ”

	Then he gave the largest smile I had ever seen. Two sandwiches, at least. I knew, deep down, that he meant the frog. That’s why she had acted so funny when she heard about his bowtie.

	“Well, what does the person look like?” I asked shyly.
 	“That’s the tricky part,” he replied, “This... person likes to disguise themselves in different ways. Ways that might even seem impossible.”

	His mouth was only a foot away now. Three sandwiches and a side of fries..

	He continued, “They may even be disguised as an animal."


	My eyes got wide. Mr. Ream’s got small.
 	“You have seen them!” Mr. Ream said, trying to hide his excitement.

	I shook my head defensively. “I didn’t say that, you did."
 	“But you have, haven’t you,” he said sympathetically. “Tell me what happened. It’s for your own safety.”

	I didn’t know what to believe.
 	“What’s so dangerous about her, anyway?” I asked.

	The moment I said it, I wished that I could take it back. I wished that I could grab the words out of mid-air and zip them right back into my mouth. But I knew that’s not how words work.

	“‘Her?’” he said.
 	I couldn’t look at him.

	He spoke sharply in a whisper. “So, it’s true. She has come to see you. Tell me why.”

	I shook my head.

	“Why did she choose to reveal herself to you? Why you? Tell me!” he demanded.

	“It was nothing,” I answered despite myself. “I was just...”
 	“You were just? You were just what?” he prodded.

	I was confused, but I knew beyond a doubt that I did not want to tell him anything more. And I was not going to make the same mistake twice.

	“I was just catching frogs in the woods with Soy and we didn’t know it was a special frog and we caught it by accident, I swear, and she begged us to let her go, so we did,” I said in one breath.

Mr. Ream sat back in his seat and listened to me ramble on.
 “And she wanted nothing to do with us, and made us promise not to tell anyone about her, and… am I in trouble?” I asked, pretending to cry.

	I had learned how to fake cry the year before when I tried out for a small part in the school play. As it turned out, the role of “Weeping Willow” wasn’t even a speaking part. It’s just a tree. No crying required. Still, after forty minutes of standing up on stage, not being allowed to move, I cried a little anyway.

	“No,” he hissed, “you’ve just disappointed me. I thought for a moment that you were the…”

	My mom walked in smiling, with a vase in her hand.

	“Sorry to interrupt but I thought you might enjoy seeing my latest- ” she stopped inner tracks when she saw me.

	“What are you two talking about in here?”
 	“Oh, Mrs. Caelum, your son and I were just —,” Mr. Ream sputtered.
 	“Why is he crying??” my mom asked more forcefully. She rushed to my side to console me.
 	“It’s nothing,” Mr. Ream pleaded, “sometimes these talks can be emotional, and if you wouldn’t mind my asking just a few more questions…”

	The tears were flowing more freely now. I had become the Weepiest Willow in the world.
 	“I would mind,” she said firmly, “and if you’d like to keep your job, you’ll leave right now.”

	Mr. Ream straightened his jacket and grabbed a briefcase from behind the couch. “Yes, of course. Thanks for your time,” he said. He opened the door and turned to me. “Be sure to let me know if your story changes,” he said with an unfriendly glare.

	My mom put her arm around my shoulder.

	“Out!” she shouted.
 	I spent the rest of the night listening to my mom speak on the phone with people from the school district. Apparently, Mr. Ream was highly regarded, but my mom didn't care. She was beyond angry. She yelled at some of the school people and even threatened to call the police once. By bedtime she seemed a little calmer.

	Whatever Mr. Ream wanted with that frog, it wasn’t good. I decided then and there that I wasn’t going to let him get to her.

	The next morning my mom gave me an extra long hug and apologized (for the tenth time) for letting Mr. Ream into the house. I told her (for the tenth time) that it was all right. Soy and I met in front of my house to walk to school, as usual. I hadn’t spoken to him since the treehouse, but it was immediately clear that he had gotten over his backpack-chewing phase.

	“How do you think it learned to talk? She, I mean. How come she could talk?” he asked. Without waiting for answer, he continued, “And how did it know my name? She, I mean.”
 	“I don’t know. Same as you,” I said honestly.
 	“What about the dude with the bowtie?” he asked excitedly.

	“His name is Mr. Ream. Soy… he knew about her,” I said.
 	“About the frog?” Soy asked.
 	“Yeah. He said that he was looking for someone who could disguise themselves as an animal. She was right to warn us. There was definitely something off about him.” I said.
 	“You didn’t tell him anything, right?” asked Soy.

	I looked down at the ground.

	“I accidentally let on that I met her,” I confessed.
 	“You did what?” Soy said in shock.
 	“I didn’t mean to. It came out by accident. And then Mr. Ream grilled me on why she had come to talk to me. Apparently, it’s a big deal that she did.”
 	“So what’d you do? Draw him a picture of it and tell him everything? Are you recording this conversation for him right now? My brothers say if you’re wearing a wire you have to tell me,” Soy said angrily.

	“No. Quit being silly, Soy. I told Mr. Ream that we were catching frogs, found her by accident, and let her go.”
 	“Oh. Okay, that’s not bad actually,” Soy said.
 	“Thanks,” I said with my head still hanging.

	“And if he looks into it at all, the story will check out since I do love catching frogs. In fact, I should catch a few extra this week, just to be safe. So… what now?” Soy asked.
 	“I really don’t know, but we need to find out why that frog’s here and why Mr. Ream is after her,” I answered.
 	“I’m in,” said Soy. “I’d take a frog in glasses over a man in a bowtie any day.”

	It felt good to have Soy on my side.

	“We’ll figure this out together,” he said, patting me on the back.

	My smile faded as he continued to pat…

	He was checking for a wire.

5. Un-tradable Lunch.
The first half of the day was more normal than I expected. Miss Weaver continued a Social Studies lesson and only stopped once for a story.

	“The legislative branch of the government is important. Probably the most important, if you ask me. It’s quite remarkable, but a former student of mine is actually a State Senator now. One of the youngest we’ve ever had! And since I was his favorite teacher, I can ask him for favors. I don’t want to brag. I really hate to brag. But I can tell you that he’s gotten me out of at least twenty parking tickets,” she said with a proud laugh.

	I always wondered how many parking tickets you could get before they stopped letting you park. I didn’t know how to drive yet, but of all the things you had to do, parking seemed the easiest.

	I had been too preoccupied to eat breakfast. My mind had been racing with questions. So by lunchtime I was starving. Soy and I sat together in the lunchroom everyday and we usually didn’t care much about which spot. The lunchroom was long and narrow with brightly colored green, blue, and orange tables. With a secret subject to discuss, Soy and I decided to sit at the far end of the longest blue table, as close to the corner as we could get. There were twelve seats between us and any classmates, which was good because Soy’s voice was known for being loud. After our third grade spelling bee, it was agreed, for everyone’s sake, that Soy would never be allowed to speak into a microphone again.

	“So… how are we going to find the frog?” he asked, looking around.
 	“I don’t know. I’m not that good at finding regular frogs,” I answered.

	“Well, I’ve been thinking. Frogs like flies, right?”
 	“Yes.” I started pulling my lunch out of my bag.
 	“And they like ponds?” Soy added.
 	“Yes,” I said again.
 	“Well, that’s something,” he said.
 	“That’s not a plan though, Soy,” I replied.
 	“The rest is on you! I spent all morning on that,” Soy shrieked.

	When I reached inside my bag again, I stopped trying to think of a plan. To be honest, my mom wasn’t the best at packing lunch. Every once in awhile, she made one so bad that it was completely un-eatable and un-tradable. Still, she had never given me anything slimy. Never anything wet. And definitely never, ever anything that moved. There was no doubt in mind: I was holding a frog.

	It had to be her. It was the only thing that made sense. Then I reminded myself that none of this truly made any sense. I tried not to panic, but I knew that I had to warn Soy from across the table, without causing a scene. The frog sat still, breathing in and out inside my hand.

	“Eets een my beg,” I said through clenched teeth.

	“What did you say to me?” Soy asked with an eyebrow raised.
 	"I said, eeeets eeeenn my beg," I repeated.

	“Huh? Who’s seen your pig?”

	“No, eeeeeets eeeeeen myyyy begggg,” I said slowly.
 	“Wait a second. Did you get a pig?” Soy asked with his arms crossed. “If you really have a pig you better let me ride it...”

	Soy was convinced that you could ride any animal larger than a cat. Also, sometimes cats. My mom said Soy was the reason we could never own any pets.

	“Soy,” I said, unclenching my teeth, “put your hand in my bag.”
 	I slid the bag over and watched him stick his hand inside. His face changed immediately.
 	“Ohhh,” he exclaimed, “it’s in your bag!”
 	The frog must have somehow understood what was going on because she was still waiting patiently.

	“Let’s bring it out and ask it some questions,” Soy said.

	The bag moved a little bit.

	“She, I mean! Let’s bring her out!” he said too loudly.
 	“Shh, we don’t want anyone to hear,” I whispered, trying to think of what to do next.

	Soy was eating make-your-own soft tacos that he'd bought from the cafeteria. They were one of his favorite lunches. He still had the ingredients for two more tacos, with the tortillas waiting on the side. I had an idea, but he wasn’t going to be happy with it.

	“Give me your tortillas,” I said.
 	“What? Why?” he said, shielding them with his arms.
 	“Soy, I’m sorry… Im gonna need your lunch.”
 	“But… it’s soft taco day,” Soy replied sadly, “my third favorite day of the month.”

	“Trust me,” I reassured him as he slowly slid them over. I was sure that if it was “grilled cheese day” or “pizza day”, I wouldn’t have been so lucky.

	In a flash, I used the tortillas and our milk cartons to construct a small fort for the frog. The opening faced me, so that only I could see inside. Gently, I laid my lunch bag down nearby, showing the frog what I had built.

	“Listen,” I whispered into the bag, “when I say so, jump out into the fort. Okay?”

There was no reply, but I was pretty sure that she had heard. Soy and I checked the surroundings one more time, trying to seem casual. The kids who were sitting closest to us had gotten up to talk to the girls sitting two tables over. Soy looked left, then right, and gave a nod.

	“Now,” I whispered.

	With a quick green blur, the frog jumped from the bag to the taco-day-fort. When she turned around, I saw her glasses. It was her.

	She spoke loud enough for Soy and me to hear, but nobody else. “Are you all right?” she said. “What did the man in the bowtie ask you? What did he do to you?”

	“He didn’t do anything to me, but he did ask about you,” I answered.
 	“Ream has been on my tail for a while now,” she said, testing the tortilla wall with her leg.

	“Frogs don’t have tails,” said Soy.

	Nobody respond. But it did make me realize something.

	“We don’t know anything about you. I don’t even know your name yet,” I said.
 	“You may call me Delilah, or Deli for short," she replied. Her face got much more serious (as serious as a frog’s face can get). “It’s very important that you tell me exactly what you told Ream. Can you do that?” She asked.

	“Yes. I, well… I accidentally told him that you and I spoke. I’m sorry,” I said, and meant it.
 	“That’s all right," Deli said. “It’s not your fault.”
 	“Then he asked why you came to talk to me… Why did you come to talk to me?” I asked.

	“Don’t worry about that now," she said. "What did you tell him?”
 	“I told him that Soy and I caught you by accident in the forrest, and that you were angry about it,” I answered.
 	“Brilliant!” she said. "It probably won’t hold him off for long, but it might confuse him. Then what happened?”

	“Then my mom saw that he had upset me and kicked him out straight away," I told Deli.
 	“Oh, she did wonderfully! Your mom is a strong one, you know,” she said.

	I wanted to know how she would know that, but there were other things that I wanted to know more.

	“Who is he?” I asked.
 	“That,” she said with a deep breath, “is a complicated answer.”
 	“He’s an alien, isn’t he?” asked Soy in an excited voice.
 	“No, he’s not an alien,” Deli replied, but in a way that didn't make Soy feel silly for asking. It made me like her a bit more.

	“Can you tell us who he is then?” I asked.
 	Deli paused for a while before answering. “He’s a dragon,” she said.

	I wasn’t sure how to respond. I thought the word must mean something different than the one I knew.

	“Technically, he’s the King of the Dragons,” she added.
 	Soy rolled his eyes.

	“Thanks for clearing that up,” he said, “I was going to guess unicorn.” Deli couldn’t see his eye roll, but Soy’s tone made it clear that he thought she was delusional.
 	“You mean like… a dragon-dragon?” I asked.
 	“Wait, maybe she meant dragonfly,” interjected Soy, “like this guy Ream must be the dreaded King of the Dragonflies!”

	Deli wasn’t amused.

	“I mean dragons!” she said firmly. “As in fire-breathing, hard-scaled, big-not-small dragons,” she rebutted.
 	“But...” I said like I was breaking bad news, “dragons aren’t real."

	Deli brought one of her frog legs up to her head and smacked it.
 	“Listen to me. There are things in this world that we don’t know, until we do,” she said.

	It was a good point, and it was made by a talking frog. If we were arguing in a courtroom, that would have been her “Exhibit A”.

	“Okay, fair enough. But if dragons are real, then why hasn’t anybody ever talked about them before?” I asked.
 	“They have. You can read about them in hundreds of books,” she countered.
 	“You mean like in fairytales?” asked Soy as he raised his head above the fort, trying to peek in.

	Before Deli could say another word, a hand hit the table and started tapping its nails. Soy and I froze. Deli tucked herself back under the cover of the fort as far as she could go.

	“The bell has rung, boys,” said Miss Weaver. “Lunch is over, and Principal Lance would like to see you.”

	I had completely forgotten about the bell, on account of the existence of dragons. Miss Weaver was not in a good mood. She always got that way when it was her turn to chaperone the lunch room. Probably because it cut into her shoulder pad naps.

	"We’re not done with our lunches, Miss Weaver,” I said as politely as I could.

“This looks more like play time than lunch! I can’t have you building houses out of food,” she said, struggling to find a reason, “because... because then everyone would want to do it!”

	Soy was nodding in agreement.
 	“It’s true. I’m already jealous of yours,” he admitted.
 	Suddenly, Miss Weaver was walking away to grab one of the garbage cans at the other end of the table.

	“Deli!” I whisper-shouted, “she’s bringing a garbage can. You’ve gotta hide!”

	Without a word, Deli leapt forward. A split-second later Miss Weaver turned around and dragged the trash can over to us. She used one arm to push all of our food into the can. That put Soy in a worse mood than Miss Weaver. His soft taco lunch was gone forever. Never to be eaten.

	“Get moving. Don’t keep Principal Lance waiting,” said Miss Weaver.

	At that moment, I didn’t care about the principal or Miss Weaver. I cared about dragons, and the frog named Deli hiding inside my shirt.

6. Bathroom Break.
It’s hard to imagine a better principal than Principal Lance. He had grey hair down to his shoulders, even though he was bald in the front. He was the oldest person at Stagwood, but he didn’t act like it. I had never heard anyone say a bad word about him, and I wouldn’t have either. Every year, on my birthday, he called me into his office and gave me a candy bar. I know he did the same for Soy (who usually finished his before he got back to the class and showed up with chocolate all over his face), and probably everyone else in my class. Still, he had a way of making me feel like I was more than some kid.

	Principal Lance’s office was small and crowded, but friendly. He had stacks and stacks of dusty books that looked like they were hundreds of years old. I heard that a girl once sneezed on one of them by accident, and it blew away in pieces. The way the story goes, Principal Lance laughed so hard that he forgot why he had sent for her. But, as Soy and I walked into his office, it seemed less friendly than usual. Miss Weaver gave a small awkward bow and left us. As it turned out, Principal Lance wasn’t alone. What I saw first in the chair next to us was a yellowish-gold bowtie, and then the large grin of Mr. Ream. My stomach dropped.

	“Have a seat, kids,” said Principal Lance. “You’ve done nothing wrong, but Mr. Ream has insisted that he speak with you. And I insisted on being present. And so, with all this insisting going on, here we are!”

	I always liked the way that Principal Lance explained things.

	Deli moved ever-so-slightly inside my shirt and I adjusted my posture without thinking. Ream’s eyes shot towards me and narrowed. I had expected him to speak to me first, but he turned to Soy with a smile instead.

	“I don’t believe we’ve met. Hello, Soy. My name is Mr. Ream,” he said.

	“Hello. My name is Soy,” said Soy.
 	“Yes… as I said, hello, Soy,” said Ream, already losing patience.

	Soy had a knack for making people lose their patience faster than anyone I’d ever met. My dad called it “impressive”, but my mom preferred not to talk about it.

	“Hello,” said Soy a second time.
 	“Soy, do you know why I’m here?” asked Ream.
 	“No. Do you know why I’m here?” Soy asked back.

	Ream was about to lose his cool. He turned to Principal Lance.

	“If you would let me speak with them alone, we could be done with this much faster,” Ream said.
 	“As I’ve told you, if you’d like to speak with my students, you’ll do it with me present,” said Principal Lance.

	“I’m here as a representative of the school board,” Ream said sternly.
 	“And I am here as caretaker to these children. Unless you are their parent or guardian, you may not speak to them without me present,” Principal Lance said even more sternly.

	Soy’s face was already covered in chocolate from a small bowl that Principal Lance had left unguarded. Ream looked over at Soy, shuddering at the thought of being his parent or guardian.

	“This will not be brought up in front of the children again,” finished Principal Lance.

	“Very well,” resigned Ream. “Soy, I need to know if you’ve noticed anything unusual in the past couple of days.”

	Their conversation was starting just like mine had, and that got me worried. The longer Ream questioned Soy or me, the more chances we would have to slip up again, even with Principal Lance there. I could still feel Deli inside my shirt, and I didn’t want to think about what would happen if Ream got his hands on her. Or, if we believed Deli, his claws.

	“Sir, may I go to the bathroom?” I blurted out.

	“Of course,” said Principal Lance.

	Ream gave the slightest hint of a smile. He relished the idea of talking to Soy without me around.

	“Um, also, I’m not allowed to go without my bathroom pal,” I said.
 	“Pardon?” said Principal Lance.
 	"Miss Weaver told us that we have to go with a bathroom pal if we want to use the bathroom. I could get in a lot of trouble if she finds out that I went alone.” I realized that I was learning how to think on my feet more and more since meeting Deli. It wasn’t the greatest lie ever told, but I hoped it would do.

	“Bathroom pal? Seems a little unnecessary at your age. ‘Bathroom buddy’ has a nicer ring, anyway. Well, so be it. Go on then, Soy,” said Principal Lance.

	I nudged Soy before he could object.
 	“Yeah…” said Soy, “I’d better go with him. He always gets lost without me.”

	Soy was the one who had walked into the girls' room by accident, not once, but twice that year already. But I wasn’t about to argue with him. Not then, at least.

	“You can’t let them both go.” said Mr. Ream. “What if they...”
 	“What if they run away?” interrupted Principal Lance. “Would you like me to disable their getaway car, just to be safe?” he laughed. “Mr. Ream, when my students need to use the restroom, they use the restroom.”

	He rose and ushered us towards the door.
 	“And that goes for their bathroom pals, as well,” he said, giving me the tiniest wink.

	As we walked out, I could tell that Ream was upset, but he dared not argue against Principal Lance again. Ream knew that we were up to something, but, luckily for us, he didn’t know what. Not-so-luckily for us, neither did I.

	Leading us through the brightly lit hallway, I didn’t stop at the nearest bathroom. Instead, I kept walking, looking down at the green tiles under my feet, wondering what to do next.

	"Where are we going?” Soy asked.

	“I’m not sure yet.”

	We passed the library, then turned the corner and passed two more bathrooms: one for students and one for visitors. Either one would have done if I was actually looking for a bathroom. At the moment, the last place I wanted us to be was somewhere that Ream expected us to be. If there was a book called “Dealing with Dragons”, I was pretty sure Chapter One would be: “Don’t Tell the Dragon Exactly Where You’re Going then Corner Yourself”, or something like that.

	After turning the corner to an empty hall, I stopped. If we were going to figure this out, we’d need Deli’s help.

	“What are we supposed to do now?” I whispered to Deli inside my shirt.
 	“You need to get to your home,” Deli answered, “it’s not safe here anymore.”

	"What’s she saying?” asked Soy.
 	"She said we need to get to my house," I told him.
 	"What’s at your house?” he asked me.
 	"What’s at my house?” I asked Deli.

	A mop splashed onto the floor, and my head flew up to see the custodian, Mr. Salazar, staring at me.

	"I sometimes talk to my belly button. Sometimes,” I stammered at him.

	“Me too,” said Soy without skipping a beat.
 	He pulled his shirt away from his body, stuck his head down, and said, “Hey, little guy, come on out and say hi!”

	Soy’s bellybutton was sometimes an innie and sometimes an outtie, so I wondered if this was actually a conversation that he'd had with it before. Mr. Salazar shook his head, and continued mopping in the other direction.

	I didn’t want to risk running into anyone else, so we snuck into the empty auditorium across the hall. When I got inside, I remembered that there was an exit behind the stage that would lead us straight into the woods. During play rehearsals, when the auditorium got too hot, they opened the door and let the breeze in. “No sense wasting money on air conditioning,” Miss Weaver would say. She was the self-appointed director every year since she, “knew how to deal with stars.”

	I was pretty familiar with the stage area. Not only had I been the (first actually) Weeping Willow, I had also been a stagehand. Soy knew a little about the stage, too. He had tried out for the lead once, but was given the role of a crocodile instead. Despite that, he ended up being mentioned in every single review, although indirectly. “Was the crocodile supposed to talk?”, and “Why did it have an accent?” were two of his favorites.

	Now, the stage exit was our best shot at escaping without being seen.

	“This way,” I said, hurrying down the side aisle.

	The set for the next play was still being built. There was a fake forest, and a small hut with pieces of wood scattered all around it. I hadn’t paid attention to what the production was, since deciding not to try out again. Soy had gotten a lifetime ban* for his crocodile performance and it wouldn’t have been much fun without him.

*Soy had told me that he outgrew the theater. It wasn’t until I saw “BANNED FROM THE THEATER” posters with his face on them that I found out the truth.

	I let Deli out onto the stage, and then Soy and I hopped up after her. The glowing red exit sign was in sight when we passed the hut, but a loud noise from the front of the auditorium stopped us in our tracks.

	“Get down!” yelled Deli.

	We crouched behind the flat wooden hut. Deli instinctively crouched too, which I thought was strange. Then I saw the terrible news for myself through a window in the hut. It was Ream, and he was being escorted down the center aisle by Mr. Salazar.

	“They came in here. They were acting all odd, talking to their tummies,” said Mr. Salazar.
 	“Hmm, I see. Thank you, that will be all,” Ream said with a wave of his hand.

	“Who did you say you worked for again?” asked the custodian.

	“The school board. The one that decides your salary,” replied Ream as he strode down the aisle towards us.

	Mr. Salazar mumbled something I couldn’t hear and left the auditorium. Ream was looking down each row of seats as he approached. When he was halfway down, he started speaking.

	“I know that you’re in here,” he said.
 	“Is he talking to us?” whispered Soy.
 	“We need to get out of here!” said Deli.
 	“He’ll see us if we run for the exit,” I said.
 	“Okay, then… we need to find a way to make him angry!” she whispered.

	"If he really is a dragon, is that such a good idea?’ asked Soy.
 	“It’s the only way. Trust me,” said Deli.

	I looked around the set. I’d never set out to make an adult angry before (especially one that worked for the school), but this was cause for an exception. My eyes settled on a handwritten sign that I had seen many times before, attached to the switch beside us. It read: DO NOT TOUCH.

	"I know how,” I said shakily, “but he’ll need to get closer.”

	“Not a problem,” whispered Soy.

	Ream vaulted up onto the stage, apparently finished searching the seats. He was the tallest person I’d ever seen. If we didn’t do something soon, he would find us in seconds.

	“I knew he was hiding something. You’ve been following these two for a weeks now, haven’t you Delilah? Have you finally found him?” Ream asked with a villainous grin.

	Soy was about to ask a question, but Deli quieted him with one look. Ream was ten feet away, right where the set began.

	“Whatever you’re going to do, do it now!” she whispered.

	I lunged to the side, tore through the warning sign and flipped the switch. Ream turned his head towards me with a sinister snarl. There was a loud crack from above the stage. A wave of red came crashing down on Ream's head, covering him and the ground completely. I was in shock. The curtain had fallen directly on him, just as I had planned, but seeing it happen startled me.

	“Do you think I hurt him?” I asked.
 	I approached the pile slowly, but Deli jumped in front.

	“No! We have to go now!” she exclaimed.

	The pile began to rise from the center. It kept growing until it almost reached the ceiling.

        In a burst, the curtain was split in two by sharp claws. There, standing in front of us, was the King of the Dragons.

7. Dragon Breath.
	“HOW DARE YOU!” said the dragon in a booming voice. His scales were bright yellow and shiny (almost glistening). His wings expanded and blocked out the rest of the auditorium. He took a step forward and I felt the stage shake beneath us. He was more terrifying than any dragon I had ever seen in drawings. His head alone was larger than my whole body.

	Ream breathed a heavy breath and then let out a puff of steam that blew over me and Deli. Soy was still tucked down behind the hut, but I knew he felt it too.

	"Go!” yelled Deli as she jumped between my legs to lead the way.

The three of us sprinted toward the exit door. Soy charged through first, and as Deli and I ran behind him, I felt more of the steam. This time it was much hotter. I slammed the door shut behind us and we ran as fast as we could to the tree line. We kept running until the school was out of sight. We stumbled over logs and under branches. Soy and I both fell at least twice, but Deli seemed to weave through the trees perfectly with every jump. When we were deep in the woods, Deli finally told us that it was okay to walk for a minute.

	“He’ll have to hide in the auditorium until he can take human form again. It takes much more effort to build a disguise than to let your true form show,” she explained.
 	“That was a DRAGON!” yelled Soy, catching his breath.
 	“I don’t understand what just happened,” I muttered.

	Deli replied, “Listen boys, I know this is a lot to take in, but it’s time that you started believing me. It will make this a lot easier."

	Not running anymore had helped me to calm down and think a little more clearly.

	“Did you know that he was going to do that? Change like that?” I asked.
 	“I was counting on it,” she said.
 	“That was pretty risky, don’t you think?” Soy asked angrily. “Especially since he would’ve passed right over you and gone for the main course!”

	We found the worn dirt path that led to my neighborhood. It was quiet in the woods, except for a few birds chirping overhead in a strange whistle.

	“What happened when you flicked that switch?” Deli asked me.
 	“That curtain’s been broken for two years. Miss Weaver told Mr. Salazar to fix it, but he just put up a sign instead. She doesn’t mind because without a curtain falling she can bow as many times as she wants to when the play is over.”
 	“Miss Weaver finally did something right, then,” said Deli.

I stopped in my tracks.

	“How is it that you know Miss Weaver?” I asked. “And what did Ream mean back there when he asked you if you’ve found ‘him’?”

	Soy stopped walking, too.

	Deli replied, “Okay, I’ll explain. But keep walking. We still need to get to your house, and it’s another five minutes away.”

	I almost asked how she knew that, but decided not to bother.

	She continued, “I’ve been watching Stagwood for a long time. My job was to find the hero before Ream did.”
 	“What do you mean ‘the hero’?” I asked.
 	“About twelve years ago, a hero was born here in Stagwood,” she answered.

	“I was born in Stagwood twelve years ago!” said Soy.

	“Yes, I know,” Deli responded. I could feel her looking at me as she spoke, but I got real interested in the colorful leaves at my feet instead.

	“Do you know who the hero is?” I stared harder at the fallen leaves.

	“We know that it’s a boy,” she said.
 	“Well, duh,” interrupted Soy with a proud smile, “aren’t most heroes?”

	“Actually, no. About 51% of heroes are female and 5% are non-binary. The males just seem to brag a lot more about it,” Deli explained with a smaller, but louder smile.
 	“Yeah, well…” Soy sometimes started a sentence without knowing how to end it. “Go on,” he said.
 	“As I mentioned, we know that he was born here in Stagwood, and we also know that it was in the summer,” she answered.
 	“Right, and I was born in June. I think we’ve decided that it’s me,” said Soy.
 	“And when were you born?” she asked me.

	My stare pierced the leaves and was well on its way to the center of the earth. “July,” I mumbled.
 	“Guys, guys, guys. It’s me,” said Soy with a hand on my shoulder, “When you’re a hero, you can just… feel it.”
 	“For years we weren’t sure who the hero was, because not much else had been written about him,” Deli told us.
 “Written? By who?” I asked.

	Nearby, a woodpecker was knocking on a tree. I couldn’t see where it was, but Deli had noticed the sound, too.

	“The fairies write down the stories. The battles between good and evil, darkness and light, and magic and sorcery are all found in the fairytales,” she said.
 	“Fairies?” I asked, looking at Deli.
 	“Of course.” she said. “That’s why they’re called fairytales. Fairy’s tales. Who did you think wrote them?”

	“People!” answered Soy.
 	Deli responded, “People can’t write the way that fairies do. Fairies are able to be places without being seen, and to know what is happening as it happens. They are the first and true storytellers.”

	“Wait, are you saying… those stories are real?” I thought out loud.
 	“Yes,” said Deli, “as I was trying to tell you before, the creatures you’ve read about are real, and so are their adventures. And the hero of this story has the most important adventure of all ahead of them.”

	"So what is it that the hero has to do? I should probably know before I get started with my heroicalisms,” Soy boasted.
 	“Heroics.” I corrected. “And this adventure sounds kind of dangerous.”
 	Deli’s eyes became serious behind her glasses. “Yes. He must face the gravest of foes.”

	Soy had lost his smile. He lowered his eyes, choosing rocks to stare at instead of leaves. “Foe, like an evil gnome?”
 	“Afraid not. More like a dragon," she replied.
 	Soy and I looked at each other. “You mean Ream? He’s part of the fairytale?” I asked.
 	Deli nodded. “Perhaps he wasn’t always meant to be, but he is now.” She looked at the trees above us.
 	“Guys, I’ve thought a lot about it, and I don’t think that I’m the hero,” said Soy definitively.
 	Deli smiled. “It’s all right, Soy,” she said. "After years of searching, I believe I’ve found him.”
 	“And who is it?” asked Soy.

	Deli shot a glance behind us towards the path.

	“There’s no time for that now,” she said. “Ream has spies all over these woods and we’ve taken too long. Unless my ears are deceiving me, they’re getting closer. It’s time to get inside.” Deli sprinted ahead with long jumps.
 	Soy whispered in my ear, “Okay, maybe they do have a neck, but now she’s talking about ears? Seriously, Deli has no idea how to frog.”

8.  Launch.
We ran the rest of the way to my house, which didn’t take more than a minute. Once we were inside, Soy started to make a snack from the fridge. This was despite the fact that ever since the “Midnight Sleepover Snack Incident of 2012”, Soy was only allowed to take food from a special drawer labeled: FOOD THIEF.



My mom had woken up that fateful morning to find our kitchen in shambles. At first she blamed my dad, then what she estimated must have been fifteen raccoons, and then, finally, Soy. He was sprawled out on a pile of containers and wrappers (and not nearly enough napkins) when my mother came for him. “Worth it,” was all he had the energy to say.



Afterwards, my parents and Soy’s made an arrangement to give Soy his own drawer and only stock healthy food inside. That’s also the reason that I never once saw him open it. Sometimes I ate from it to help cover for him.



“Soy, now’s not the time for food,” I said, shutting the fridge.

“No, it’s all right,” said Deli. "Soy, I want you to gather as much food as you can carry inside both of your backpacks and then bring them upstairs. Anything you want, okay?”



Soy was too shocked to speak. It was like she had just asked if he would mind testing every toy in the toy store. He nodded (and drooled a little).

I picked up Deli and ran up the stairs to my room. “Okay, we’re here. Now what?” I asked.

“Now we get ready for liftoff,” she said. “Open that window as far as it will go.”

“Got it,” I said.

I ran over to the window across from my bed and dresser, pulled up the blinds and lifted the glass as high as I could manage.

“That won’t do it,” she told me, “get it higher.”

I used a baseball bat to get an extra two feet and built a base out of three books and an empty glass to hold it up. Deli gave me a little frog nod.

I ran back over to her and asked, “What else do you need for, wait… liftoff?”

Soy had to drag the backpacks into my room. By the time he got to us, his smile looked like it hurt.



“Great work, Soy!” Deli said. “Now lift them up onto the bed.”

As Soy heaved the bags up one at a time, I heard crinkles and clinking and sloshing. My guess was that Soy must’ve taken absolutely everything in the kitchen except for the contents of his drawer.

"Do you have a smartphone?" Deli asked me.



I opened my desk drawer and pulled out a dark blue smartphone. It was a birthday gift from my mom. The cover was custom-made with a picture of me at three years old with spaghetti all over my face. I was pretty positive she had glued it on.

Even though I had the phone, my parents didn’t really let me use it much. They told me it was only for emergencies, and they made sure to check the bill every month. On top of that, they looked at my text message history every week, just to be sure I wasn’t using it improperly. Once, I used it to vote for my favorite singer on a reality show. When my parents found out, they grounded me for three weeks. They let me off the hook after two weeks, but I never got to see the finale.



“Now, hop on the bed,” said Deli.

All three of us sat in a row facing the window, with Soy in the back with our bags, Deli in the center, and me at the foot of the bed.

“What do we do now?” Soy asked.

“We’ve got to fly this bed out of the room,” she answered.

Soy was silent for a moment. “I decided I’m not asking any more questions,” he said.

“How are you going to make a bed fly?” I asked her.

“I won’t,” she said, “you will.”

“Me?” I asked with a squeak. “But I’m… I can’t even drive yet!”

“Listen, your bed already has the magic that you need to make it fly,” she explained.

“I’ve slept in this bed every night, and it’s never once flown,” I rebutted quickly, before Soy could accuse me of holding out on him.



Deli explained, “There is a magic in the stories your parents read to you when you were younger, and the ones you read to yourself. It’s a form of magic called lore. Most of it goes to you and helps fuel your dreams. Some of it, though, falls around you, building up inside your bed.”

Soy was staring at her blankly.

She continued, "Imagine a single flower in a field of dry grass. If you watered that flower every single day, not only would the flower bloom and grow, but the grass surrounding it would become green and strong, as well. Your bed has been sprinkled with lore, growing stronger every night. Now it’s time to use it.”

I had never heard of lore before and, from the look on his face, neither had Soy. He shook his head as he opened a bag of chips.

“Nope. Nope. Nope. What you’re looking for is an airplane. This is a bed.” He took a bite and made a loud crunch. “I do sleep on both of them, though,” he said to himself.

I put my hand on top of the blanket for a moment. Maybe it was time that I started to trust Deli. She had warned us that Mr. Ream was a dragon, and there was no denying that now. She had helped us escape and had risked her own skin more than once. If she said my bed could fly, maybe she was right.



“Okay, what do I need to do?” I inquired.

“Wharffs??” Soy said with a mouth full of chips.

“Excellent!” Deli responded, “First things first, pick your steering wheel. It can be anything you’d like.”

I picked up the smallest pillow on my bed. It was one that my grandfather had made for me when I was little. It was dark grey with an apple tree sewn onto the front of it.

“Got it,” I said.

“Place it in front of you,” she told me.



I put both my hands on the pillow in front of me, acting like it was a steering wheel. Without a noise, I felt it lock into place. I could rotate it around, but when I pushed or pulled it too far, it snapped back into position. When I let go, it hung midair. It was like it was held in place by invisible rubber bands.

“Whoa,” I said, turning back to Soy, “are you seeing this?” He nodded with wide eyes.

“That will do nicely. Items with meaning tend to absorb more lore,” she told me. Soy was starting to creep up to watch more closely.

“Now, place your phone down,” she instructed me.



I put the phone down on the bed to my left, next to the steering wheel, and it stuck there. The smartphone glowed orange, and the screen began to change. There were all sorts of gauges and levels on the screen that I had never seen before. Most prominent, were five buttons:



CRUISE MODE

SPY MODE

SQUEEZE

NEVER PUSH

and the largest, LIFTOFF.



I was so nervous and excited that I didn’t realize my mom had come home until I heard the door slam shut.



“What are you two doing here?” she yelled upstairs. “Was it a half-day today?”

She had seen the books from our backpacks that were emptied onto the kitchen floor when Soy made room for the food.

Deli started to speak faster. “Do you see the LIFTOFF button? Press it now.”

I pushed the button and the mattress immediately began to shake. And then, slowly, it lifted itself up into the air. It was only a few inches off of the frame when it stopped shaking and hovered smoothly. My face gave way to an involuntary smile. Of all the things that I had seen and experienced that day, this was the most amazing. We were flying!



My smile was cut short when we heard the sound of cabinet doors opening and closing with loud bangs.

“He did it again!” she yelled. “He ate it all!”

My mom immediately started storming up the stairs, speaking to herself. “This time Soy’s going to replace everything he took! How did he even… No, I don’t care how! He’s going to be punished!”

“We don’t have time for proper instructions,” Deli panicked. "Push the brown button and tilt the steering wheel forward.”

“Okay, but it -” I began to say.

My mom knocked angrily on my door and then started to turn the knob.



“There’s no time, just do it!” Deli shouted.

I pushed my finger down hard onto the brown button, labeled: SQUEEZE.

The sides of the bed shot up towards our heads, wrapping us up. The door started to swing open. I had just enough room to push my hands forward on the pillow. In the blink of an eye, we shot straight ahead, pushed through the window, knocking the bat away, and popping us out the other side as it shut.



I could barely hear my mom shouting when she opened the door to an empty room. “Beds?!? He’s taking beds now?!”

9. Flight of the Bed.
Our house sat on forest end of Windfall Drive. There were eleven-and-a-half houses on our side of the street and twelve on the other. The “half” was because of a house on the opposite end of the block, at the intersection with Slope Street. It was owned by two elderly ladies, both named Miss Trinket. They were identical twins and didn’t seem to like anyone, least of all each other. Miss Trinket got her mail addressed to Windfall Drive and her sister, Miss Trinket, insisted on getting her mail addressed to Slope Street. According to my dad, it all started forty years ago with an argument over who should mow the lawn.

“Miss Trinket doesn’t think she should have to do it because Miss Trinket has slightly longer legs than her, and it would take her less time. However, Miss Trinket thinks Miss Trinket should do it because she has a bad back and Miss Trinket doesn’t. Ever since the argument started, they refuse to live at the same address, so Miss Trinket changed hers to Slope Street. Understand?” my dad asked. My answer was always no, no matter how matter times he explained it.

Sometimes their grass would get so long that Soy refused to walk by. “Who knows what’s inside there?!” he would say. Most likely it was just bugs and maybe snakes, and Soy liked both of them. Still something about not being able to see inside rubbed Soy the wrong way, so we took the long way around or went through the woods instead. Besides that, there was always a Miss Trinket outside on the porch waiting to get mad about something. They yelled at the mailman every single day for scaring their dog, Marshall. He was a small border collie with white and black hair, and he was always laying down next to one of them. I sometimes wondered if he could tell them apart. If animals really could talk, that might have been my first question.

Once a summer, my dad sent me over to mow their lawn for them, secretly hoping to make our side of the street an even twelve again (he said that the other side of the street looked down on us). Mowing their lawn didn’t make our street whole, but it did make me the only person who the Trinket Twins liked.

They would each make me a lemonade if it was a hot day, and deliver it to me when the other one wasn’t around. One of the Trinkets made hers too sweet and the other made hers too tart, but when I combined them the lemonade tasted perfect. The best part was that they always paid me separately, as well.
 	“Remember, I’m the nice one,” a Miss Trinket would say as she handed me money.

Two minutes later the other Miss Trinket would say the same thing and hand me the same amount of money. I decided that they were both the nice one, partly because it was true but mostly because I had no way of picking.

Flying on my bed, we rocketed down the middle of Windfall Drive, past twelve houses to our left, and eleven and a half to our right. Luckily for us, there was only one person outside that day, and it was a Miss Trinket, with Marshall by her side. She was sitting on her porch, looking out over a foot of grass with a lemonade in her hand, either too sweet or too tart.

Marshall lifted his head and wagged his tail as he looked up. Miss Trinket gave me a friendly smile and wave as we zipped by her. I waved back as best as I could from the smushed bed. She put a finger over her mouth to tell me that she knew how to keep a secret, and gave a wink. Say what you will about a Miss Trinket, but they’re a pretty good person to have on your side when you’re flying down the street on a magic bed and don’t want it getting back to your mom.

Flying was like nothing I’d ever felt before. It was like being on a roller coaster that jumped its tracks and decided to explore. My excitement changed to worry when I spotted the bookstore getting closer and closer. I’d forgotten that my street ended abruptly at Finnegan's Books, and we were running out of road. It looked like a house, but it was one story taller than all the others.

“Press the button again!” shouted Deli from behind me.

I found the smartphone, at eye level now, but it was too close to my face to see. I shimmied and nudged my elbows until I could just make out the words. The brown button now read: FLOPBACK.

There wasn’t a second to spare as I pushed it. The mattress flattened out in an instant. I lifted the pillow steering wheel slightly, now that it was moving more easily, and we shot up higher. The bookstore was passing safely below us when Soy spoke.

“How are you so good at steering?” he asked me.
 	“I don’t know,” I said, looking back. “I’m just doing what feels right.”

Deli seemed to be smiling, but it can be hard to tell sometimes with frogs.

The sky was clear blue as far as I could see. I saw the wind blowing crumbs off of Soy’s shirt. We were flying faster and higher by the second.

“Keep climbing,” said Deli.

I steered the bed upward until I could see all of Stagwood Forest below us. To the west, it thinned out and faded into the slope of Saltridge Hills. The forest was thicker to our right, where it spread until hitting Merrywater Creek.

I decided to test out the bed a little more. Better to learn how to fly it when there was nothing else around. I turned the pillow to the right, and the whole bed started to fly right. I turned the pillow slightly left, and we shifted back. When I pushed forward, the bed sped up and the wind blew through my hair, making my cheeks flap. I pulled towards me, and we slowed down, which made the bed begin to dip. Lifting and pushing and forward, we floated right back up.

I was so intent on learning that I barely felt the tap on my shoulder. When I turned around, I saw that Soy’s face had turned green, and it looked like he was about to throw up.

“I’m starting to get car sick,” he said.

“This isn’t a car,” reminded Deli.

Soy didn’t have time for a rebuttal. He got sick over the side of the bed. I concentrated on keeping the bed straight from then on.

“You okay?” I shouted, so he could hear me over his vomiting.

A few moments later he was laying back on the bed. “You can’t zigzag around like that!” he scolded me. “I almost fell off the bed!”

“I’m sorry, Soy,” I answered.

I felt pretty bad about making him sick, but it felt much worse to think that I had endangered all of us.

“Where am I supposed to be going?” I asked Deli, to change the subject.

She hopped over to the phone and looked at the screen. I watched her leg stretch out and press the button that said: CRUISE MODE. A map application came up that looked like one my parents used on their phones all the time. She typed out the word “PAVIDALE”, and entered it.

The pillow popped out of my hands and dropped, attaching itself to the bed. All of a sudden, a see-through bright orange shield started to rise from all sides of the bed. It locked together above our heads. We were completely encased.

“Luckily, your bed has more than enough lore to spare for the shield, too. It will make sure that nobody falls off,” Deli told us happily. “And Soy, if you need to throw up again, let me know, because you don’t want the shield up when you do.”
 	“And we’re going to... Pardivale?” I blurted out.

“Pavidale. Yes. Right now, it’s over Iceland,” she told me.

“Right now?” I asked.
 	“Right now,” she said and left it at that. “The bed knows where to go. It will take care of the rest. But remember this: the shield is better at keeping things in than keeping things out, so pay attention to anything that might get in our path. Take back control anytime by pressing the CRUISE MODE button again to turn it off.”

Soy reached his arms out wide and looked around. “What could we possibly hit out here?”
 	“Birds for one thing, planes for another… or dark clouds. Those would be the worst of all,” she answered gravely.

“What’s so bad about dark clouds?” I asked Deli. I had a feeling that we wouldn’t like her answer.

“Dark clouds can be a source of a magic that we call rile. Rile is the opposite of lore. It fuels nightmares, and it gives the worst kind of creatures their magic. There’s no telling what we’d find inside if we passed through a cloud with rile,” she said.
 	“Okay,” I interjected, “but we learned in school that clouds are just water vapor. And that they’re white because of something to do with how they scatter light.”
 	“We learned that?” Soy asked.
 	“And that dark clouds, or rain clouds, are only dark because they have more water inside,” I finished.
 	“When did we learn that?!” Soy questioned.
 	“Last week. That’s why you should pay better attention in class sometimes,” I responded proudly.
 	“And you looked out the window, saw a frog with glasses, and have us flying away from a dragon on your bed. That’s why you should pay attention in class."

Soy must’ve been saving that one up.

“That’s how most clouds work,” said Deli, “but these clouds are different. They don’t operate by the same rules, just like a dream doesn’t operate by the same rules as the real world. Lore and rile are stronger than you can possibly imagine.”

“How do we know a dark magic cloud from a regular one?” I asked.
 “Magic clouds take the shape of something unusual. Extraordinary even,” she answered.

Soy and I both looked around the sky. There were no clouds around with interesting shapes. And I still had more questions.

“Deli, if there are clouds with rile inside, does that mean that there are clouds with lore inside too?”

Deli smiled back at me.
 	“That is an excellent question,” she said.
 	The bed dipped a few feet, riding on an air current that was invisible to me.

“But I don’t have to tell you,” she said, lying back, “because you’re going to find out soon enough.”

Deli took over a little while later, patrolling the sky until the sun began to set. She told Soy and me to get some sleep while we could, so we’d be rested. I tried to remember whether frogs were nocturnal or not. Then I wondered whether it mattered, since Deli said she wasn’t a real frog. Those were my last thoughts before drifting off to sleep.

I hadn’t had a nightmare in a long time, but that night I did. I dreamt about big red dragons who were attacking me from the sky and from underground. And then I dreamt about the shape I had been drawing in class when Deli appeared. I didn’t recognize what it was then, and I didn’t even know why I drew it. It felt like maybe I had dreamt of that shape once before, but I couldn’t be sure. Then the shape was floating right above me, but just as I reached out to grab it, Deli woke me. She thought she had seen something following behind us. After we looked more closely, we decided that it was nothing.

“Probably just a plane passing by,” she concluded.

I went back to sleep easily. The rest of the night I dreamt of flying around the world on top of an enormous marshmallow. It was much nicer than the dragon dream. By the time the sun rose, we were almost there. I didn’t let on to Deli and Soy, but I knew almost nothing about Iceland. When we first caught a glimpse of it, I couldn’t believe my eyes. I thought it was the most amazing place that I had ever seen. There were big green mountains and hills with snow on top. We flew over huge lakes and waterfalls cut into the side of rocks, and the air smelled nicer than any air from back home.

“This reminds me of Scotland!” Soy said.

“You’ve been to Scotland?” I asked him.

“Yep, my whole family went when I was a baby,” he replied proudly.
 	“How can you possibly remember it then? I can’t remember a thing about being a baby,” I said.

He put a hand on my shoulder and said, “Some babies are smarter than others.”

I took my position at the head of the bed, and Deli jumped up beside me. “Press the CRUISE MODE button again,” she commanded.

Right after I pressed it, the bed started to shake. The orange shield receded slowly, and I felt the temperature drop. The pillow popped up into my hands, and I grabbed it, doing my best to steady the bed. Deli pointed to a large cloud which was now directly in front of us. I noticed that it was in an odd shape: long in the body, but still thick, and there was a wisp of cloud coming out of the top.

Soy recognized it before I did. “It’s a whale!” he shouted.

I steered the bed upward, heading for the tail. We followed the curve and headed up the back. I had underestimated how fast we were going and we passed right over most of the body in a few seconds.

We were almost at the head when Deli yelled, “Drop us down!”

I pulled down hard on the pillow, and we broke through the top edge of the cloud, just a little past the blowhole. There was a flash of white, and I felt a cool wet breeze. A split-second later I felt warm, like it was a spring day. The white surrounding us turned to open space, and I realized that this cloud was hollow.

I looked down and saw green, speckled with small squares, and there were shapes moving around in-between them on tan lines. There was also a blue circle. My brain searched, trying to match what I was seeing with everything I knew about clouds. But it was somewhere else in my head that I found the answer. What I saw reminded me of a map. I was looking at a village.

We were falling faster and longer than I’d ever fallen before. My stomach felt like it was inside my throat. I tried yanking up on the pillow, but it was not responding to my touch; it felt like there was something stronger controlling it. As we got closer to the bottom, lights flew up from below us and began whizzing by the bed.

“Do something!” yelled Soy, “I don’t want to die inside a whale cloud!”
 	Deli hadn’t moved since we started dropping. She looked as calm as ever.

The back of the bed hit first, and then the front came crashing down. To my surprise, water shot up from all sides and splashed down onto my head.

“Welcome to Pavidale,” Deli announced.

10. Pavidale.
The water was clear and blue, and when I peeked over the side of the bed, I saw strange fish swimming below us. They had long snouts and small fins, and most of them were purple and yellow. The fish were sprinting through tubes made of something spongy and, every once in awhile, they would jump above the water and do a flip. We were in a small pond. The bank had bright emerald grass and a group of houses that were the size of dog houses, but fancy as mansions.

At the far edge of the pond was a flat stone with dozens of glowing lights dancing around on top of it. They were the same lights that had flown by us during my “landing”. They were moving in a way that even the best holiday lights in the world couldn’t.
 	“Why aren’t we sinking?” asked Soy.

Before he got an answer, the bed started to float towards the stone platform. I got a closer look at the lights and realized that they weren’t just lights. They looked human, with one big difference: they had wings that were more incredible than any I’ve ever drawn.

“Are those over-sized fireflies?” Soy asked.
 	“Those are fairies,” I said with certainty.
 	“That’s right,” said Deli, “Pavidale is the home of the fairies.”

“Do you ever do or say anything normal?” Soy asked.

The fairies wings were glowing brightly, and you could almost see right through them. Their ears were tall and pointy on both sides of their long faces. Each fairy had its own colorful glow, and they all hummed with excitement as we drifted closer. Without a sound, the bed tapped the edge of the stone.

I guessed that the fairies must be about six inches tall. Almost all of them were a shade of green or blue, but there were a few yellow and red ones, too. There was only one pink fairy, and their glow was stronger than any of the others. The pink fairy stepped forward from the crowd.

“Allow me to introduce, Tryt,” Deli said as she gestured toward the pink fairy.
 	“It’s a pleasure to meet you, Miss Tryt,” Soy said, bowing his head low behind me.
 	“We have waited a long time for your arrival. Although, I had hoped that you both would have learned some manners by now. Just because a fairy is pink does not mean that it is female,” Tryt said.

Soy picked his head up and blushed. As we stepped off the bed onto the stone, the fairies swarmed us. They fluttered and giggled, and gossiped in whispers.

“Come now,” commanded Tryt, “leave them be. They’ve traveled far, and there’s much to do before they leave.”

I wasn’t ready to think about leaving anytime soon. I had never seen any place like Pavidale. There was something magical and comforting and serene about it. We followed Tryt down a wide tan road. He flew low to the ground, at the same height as Deli’s hops.

Tryt had a regal look about him. He wore a magnificent clear robe that glimmered (with holes in the back for his wings). Somehow he always seemed to be talking down to us, even when he was speaking from a few feet below.

“There were some fairies here who were beginning to wonder if you’d ever find him,” he said to Deli.
 	“Yes, it’s just that, I needed to be certain,” she responded meekly.
 	After a long pause, Tryt spoke again. “Of course,” he said calmly, “I knew you wouldn’t fail with so much at stake.”

Tryt led us to a circular building much larger than the houses, with pillars and some letters above the entrance that I did not recognize. As we walked through, I discovered there was no roof in the center, just an open garden with a round table and four chairs that looked like they were made of glass.

“The pond fairies will take care of your bed. Although I must say, we did not expect you to land so abruptly,” he said to me. “Have a seat and let us get down to business."

Tryt showed each of us to our chairs around the table. Soy was to my right, and Tryt was to my left, with Deli straight across. I noticed that the chairs were made of a hard material, but they were still comfortable. It was like mine had been fitted specifically for my body. I noticed that Tryt’s chair was also the perfect size for him. And so was Soy’s. Deli’s chair was the only one that wasn’t the exact right size. It was even taller than mine, and she had to hop up to sit on it.

“These are beautiful chairs, Mr. Tryt, sir. Are they made out of glass, Mr. Tryt?” said Soy.

“Your words are more transparent than the chairs, Soy,” answered Tryt.

Soy shot me a puzzled look.

“Transparent,” I whispered, “it means he can see right through it and knows what you’re doing.”
 	“Ah,” Soy whispered back. “… I don’t like him.”
 	“Soy, I think he can hear everything we’re saying,” I responded shyly.

“Oh, because of those pointy elf ears? You might be right. He can probably hear Miss Weaver’s lesson from here with those things.”

By this point, Tryt was glaring at Soy.
 	“Miss Weaver isn’t teaching right now. She’s on a break," Tryt said.

I looked at Tryt and wondered if he was being serious. His face hadn’t changed and, besides that, Tryt didn’t seem like the type of fairy who was known for joking around. Although, to be fair, I could count the number of fairies that I knew on one finger.

“How do you know what Miss Weaver is doing right now?” I asked.

“I told you, it’s the pointy ears,” whispered Soy.
 	“A fairytale begins when a single sentence appears in the Book of Lore. After that, it is up to the fairies to record what happens. In order to do so, we must keep a close eye on all those who may be involved in the story. For this we use lore,” Tryt said. When he spoke, it wasn’t with the same kindness as Deli, but it still made me feel better to know that he and his fairies had been looking out for us. “And our ears aren’t that pointy,” he added crisply.

Soy smiled back, rubbed the top of his ear and then pretended to cut his finger on a pointy edge. Apparently, Soy was no longer worried about staying on Tryt’s good side. Given his history, it wasn’t all that surprising. Soy never got along with authority figures; it usually took less than a day for him to get into a battle with one. The fastest that I ever saw it happen was when he held a “special election” on the walk to school and decided that he would only respond to “President Soy” from then on. (I was the only other person who voted, and Soy told me there was an error with my ballot). We never made it past roll call that day.

“So are the fairies speaking to you right now?” I asked, still not understanding.

Tryt pulled out a shiny yellowish pen from the pocket of his robe. It had a broad tip, and the top of it was an even shinier crown of gold. There was something about the shape that grabbed my attention, but I couldn’t put my finger on it.

“Magic pens are extremely powerful. They can use lore in many ways. I use the Fairytale Pen to collect information from fairies all over the world. It’s how I’m able to write the stories as they happen,” he explained.
 	“This isn’t a story. It’s our lives,” Soy protested.
 	“I see no difference,” replied Tryt coldly.

“How do the fairies collect the information? Are they watching Miss Weaver right now?” I wondered out loud.
 	“As you know by now, magic can be used to disguise. The fairies take the form of small creatures that go largely unnoticed by humans,” Tryt explained.

Deli hadn’t spoken in a little while, and instead sat listening. I looked at her for a moment and thought about what Tryt had just said. “Small creatures… so, does that mean that Deli…”
 	“No,” replied Tryt, “a fairy would never choose the shape of a frog. And Deli isn’t a fairy, she’s—“

Deli cut him off before he could finish. “What about Ream? What’s he up to now?” she asked loudly.

“Ah, yes. The King of Dragons,” he responded.

Deli nodded, happy to have changed the subject.

“He took his human form again and stole a costume from the set of the school play,” said Tryt. “He left the grounds twenty minutes after you fled.” He was staring at Soy when he said the final word.
 	“Where did he go?” I asked.

Tryt paused for a moment and looked at Deli. Deli looked back at Tryt. She waited for an answer. It was clear that Deli had been just as much in the dark as we were since leaving the school.

“He went to your house,” Tryt said to me. “My fairies tell me you missed each other by less than two minutes."

It took a moment for the news to sink in. I looked through the fancy table at the grass. A dragon. At my house. With my mom. The thought scared me beyond words. And then I got angry. I stood up from the the table and pressed my hands down hard.

“My mom was home when we left!” I shouted.
 	“Yes,” said Tryt, “now calm down and have a seat.”
 	“No! He’s a dragon, and he could destroy my entire house with one breath and my mom is inside!”

I was hysterical. The tears came pouring down. My view of the courtyard blended into watery colors. Deli hopped onto the table and then onto my shoulder. She patted the back of my head. It was so soft that I could barely feel it, but still, it was nice. She spoke to me in a soothing voice.

“She's all right,” Deli said.
 	Tryt spoke in a matter-of-fact way. "Ream cannot enter your home. He was struck with stonegold in a battle many years ago, and it cannot be removed. Stonegold is an ancient metal with a strong magic. It’s the same magic that forged The Fairytale Pen,” Tryt explained, gesturing towards the pen he had shown me. Through my teary eyes, the shape looked even more familiar to me.
 	“That’s the same color as his bowtie,” I noticed.
 	“Yes,” said Deli, “Ream’s stonegold was in the form of a bowtie when you met him. But lore is able to control stonegold, and nothing that touches it may enter your home unless the fairies permit it. It’s the same magic that has protected Pavidale for centuries.” Her voice faltered a bit as she spoke the last words.

Soy stood up now, looking just as upset as I had moments ago.

“What about my mom? What about my family?!” he asked.
 	“We’ve done the same for your home,” replied Tryt, “although your brothers proved to be a challenge.”
 	Soy laughed a little in relief. “Ha, yeah that sounds right.”
 	“My fairies found them throwing a squirrel out of a window when they arrived,” Tryt said with disgust.

“They must’ve found another one,” said Soy, a bit more relaxed.
 	“Yes, well it won’t be a problem anymore. Two of my most trusted fairies gave the squirrel enough lore to truly fly. When your brothers tried to throw it out the window this morning, the squirrel simply kept on going and flew away.”
 	Soy smiled now. “How did they take it?” he asked.

“Rick accused Hank of throwing the squirrel too hard. Hank accused Rick of secretly attaching it to a drone. They wrestled for seven minutes, and then looked up “flying squirrels” online for the next two hours on their phones,” Tryt elaborated.

It occurred to me then that fairies must be better with details than any other creature in the world, imaginary or real (although, I felt like I didn’t know which animals belonged to which category anymore).

“Good for the squirrel,” said Soy.

“So what happens if our families leave our homes?” I asked, becoming nervous again.

“I wouldn’t worry about that,” said Tryt, “Ream left Stagwood hours ago and is headed towards us.

11. For Fairy Eyes Only.
	“Why didn’t you tell us that right away?” Soy asked as he stood up.
 	“You did not ask,” replied Tryt, still seated.
 	“I also didn’t ask to be flown here to hang out inside a cloud with a pointy-eared jerk. But here I am!” Soy shouted.

Tyrt stood up too, but as a fairy, it didn’t have the same dramatic effect.

“Soy, let’s just calm down,” I said to him. "They’re trying to help us.”
 	“They’re the whole reason we’re in this mess,” Soy said gruffly. “How do we even know we belong here?”

Soy had made a pretty good point. It seemed that Ream was only interested in us because Deli was, and she still hadn’t shown us any evidence that either Soy or I was the hero. For a moment, I imagined that maybe everything was a mistake, and that we might be able to end this all and go home. The thought didn’t make me sad, but it didn’t make me happy either.

“I believe we can answer that,” said Deli from my shoulder.
 	As she hopped onto the table in front of Tryt, she spoke only to him. “It’s time to show them,” she asserted.

Tryt’s face told me that he wasn’t thrilled about the idea. He wore the same expression that I had when my mom insisted that I do my homework right when I got home. I knew that she was right, and that it wasn’t her fault she was right, but I still didn’t like it.

Tryt raised one of his pink fluorescent wings and motioned some fairies over, using it like an arm. Four fairies came flying in from the side of the courtyard, opposite from where we entered. They were carrying a large dark brown book.

These fairies had on a kind of medieval armor made from the same glass as the chairs and table. The book they were carrying was thicker than a dictionary and wider. It was the kind of book that Soy would have openly protested if we had been assigned to read it for our class. He once protested that making kids read anything over one hundred pages was technically illegal, but he never found the proof to support it.

Despite the size, it still seemed that the book was heavier than it looked, since the fairies were out of breath by the time they put it down on the table. Tryt shooed them away with his wing, and they disappeared straight up and out of the courtyard.

When the fairies left, Soy and I stood up at the same time to inspect the book. It was a dusty, rundown book. But something about it was beautiful. There were no words on the cover, and it was hard to say whether they had rubbed off or they were just never there at all. A buckle with a lock ran horizontally across, made of the strange yellowish-gold that I now knew.

“Stonegold?” I asked.
 	“Yes,” said Tryt, “only a magic pen may write in the Book of Lore, but it does not hurt to be safe.”

“Why would anybody want to mess with the book?” asked Soy.

“The Book of Lore chronicles every fairytale throughout history. Changing them would change the fate of the world,” answered Tryt indignantly. Soy didn’t bother responding this time.

All four of us gathered closer, hovering over the book as Tryt held up his shiny pen. Without a word, he turned it over, placed the crown top inside the stonegold lock and turned it. The buckle surrendered, opening up with a low hiss. I thought the pages smelled like pine trees, but didn’t say it out loud. Tryt began flipping through the book and it was hard to see the words. Whenever I did catch a glimpse, the writing was hard to focus on at first, but then got more clear. The words were written in fancy, old looking letters.

Soy was poking his head even closer.

“It’s in English,” he said, “I thought it might be in fairy or elvish, or something weird like that.”

Tryt glanced at Deli, then back to the page. It was obvious from his voice that he was agitated. “It’s not in English. The fairytales in the Book of Lore appear in the first language of whomever is reading it,” he said.

“That’s English,” said Soy, pointing at the book.
 	“Soy, to you it is in English, but to someone else it may be in French or German,” said Deli.

“If it was in French of German, I wouldn’t be able to read it,” Soy explained simply, “so that’s how I know it’s in English.”

Tryt let out an un-fairylike grunt and continued flipping through the pages while he spoke. “The characters in these stories had their fates sealed by the outcomes written here. But there is one fairytale that remains unique. Ream’s first fairytale.”
 	“He was part of a different fairytale?” I asked with surprise. That seemed like a big deal to me.

“Yes," Tryt replied. "When a hero or heroine defeats a villain, their story and their fate are sealed within this book. All the rile of those who were defeated, all of their magic, is confined within the book so that they may never use it against the world again. And every villain inside the Book of Lore was defeated, save one."

“Ream,” I said.

“Yes,” replied Deli. “Instead of defeat, his tale ended with an escape. That is why he was able to hold onto his rile.”
 	“He was injured. Pierced with stonegold to be exact,” Tryt said as he slowed his page-turning. “And once stonegold pierces you, it may never be removed or covered. That is why Ream always has a piece of stonegold visible, regardless of his disguise."

“But nobody has explained yet why he’s after us,” said Soy. “We didn’t do anything to him!”

“You’re not a patient child, are you, Soy?” asked Tryt in a half-question.
 	“And you don’t own a bookmark,” rebutted Soy, not-at-all in the form of a question.

Tryt turned one last page, then covered it with his fairy hand, unleashing a slew of pink sparkles that shot out to conceal the center. He spoke only to me.

“This… is your fairytale. And this is the reason that Ream is after you. It may be the last fairytale that is ever written. All the fairytales that came before it, and all the creatures inside of them are at stake. It offers Ream and the forces of rile a chance to change their fate.”

“But, why are you calling it mine?” I asked shyly.

Deli looked up at me.

“Because you are the hero,” she replied.

Tryt moved his hand, and the sparkles flew away. Written on the page in a thousand languages, but in English to me, was the title: The Boy and The Flying Bed. And underneath it, there was a small drawing.

It was the same one I had been drawing when I noticed a frog staring at me from behind a window.

12. Plans.
The drawing in the book was the same shape that I had dreamt about, and I finally realized what it was.

“Is that supposed to mean something to me?” asked Soy.
 	“It’s... something that I was drawing that day in class when I saw Deli,” I told him.

“So, you’ve seen this book before?” he asked.
 	“No, never,” I answered.
 	“You are the first humans to see it,” said Tryt solemnly. "It is a great honor that I have bestowed upon you.”
 	“Well, we deserve to be bestowed,” said Soy (clearly not sure what the word meant). “So, what do the rest of the pages say?” he asked.

Tryt closed the book with surprising strength.

“All you need to know is that if you fail, the consequences will be dire,” said Tryt.

“Okay, but I feel like we’re missing something major here,” Soy stated.
 “What do you mean?” asked Deli.

“So, Ream’s the villain and he’s the hero?” Soy asked as he pointed to me.
 	“Correct,” said Tryt.
 	“Yes,” said Deli.
 	“And I’m some kind of expert guide who helps the hero because I am the only one who can,” Soy continued.

“Nobody said that,” said Tryt.
 	“But what is the point of the fairytale? What’s the thing we have to beat Ream at?” Soy inquired.

Soy asked the one question that I'd forgotten to ask. There was always a reason for the fairytale. Sometimes a giant was terrorizing a village, and sometimes a kingdom was under siege by a witch, but it was always something. What was it that Ream wanted? Why was there a fairytale at all?

“I’m curious too,” I said, “and that title doesn’t seem to help.”

Deli jumped on top of the book in a puff of shiny dust. Her head was low as she spoke. 			“Ream didn’t escape his fairytale by chance. He knew things that helped him. Things that he shouldn’t have known.”

“Somebody helped him, then?” I asked.
 	“We believe so,” said Deli.
 	“Some believe so,” said Tryt, glaring at Deli.
 	“What we know for sure,” she replied, “is that once he escaped, he set out to find the one thing that could make him more powerful.”

“What is it?!” asked Soy, “Some kind of magic wand?”
 	“No,” said Tryt. Then he turned to Deli and me. “Why do you let him guess so much. He’s terrible at it.”
 	“Hey!” Soy yelled. “I can still hear you. Regular-sized ears work, too.”
 	“How would you like it if I turned you into a newt?” said Tryt, staring angrily at Soy.
 	“Tryt!” exclaimed Deli.
 	Tryt immediately got back his composure and confessed, “I’m sorry. I just… he just, draws my ire.”

“Yeah, well you should really work on that,” said Soy.

I spoke up. “It’s the pen isn’t it?”

Soy look at me, puzzled.

“That shape in the book and the shape that I was drawing in class; it’s a symbol for your Fairytale Pen isn’t it?” I asked Tryt.

“A pen,” Tryt answered, “but not mine.”

He lifted the pen up to show us more details. As he spun it, I saw the stonegold shimmer and spin like it was alive. It was mesmerizing.

Soy had done battle with a hypnotist once at a birthday party. She made the mistake of picking Soy to be the volunteer, and it all went downhill from there. By the time Soy was selected, he was already convinced that he could hypnotize the hypnotist. We watched them try to hypnotize each other for about a half-hour. Her with techniques that she had learned over the years, and him with exaggerated movements and words like “abracadabra”. When she finally asked him to sit down, Soy commanded her to sit down, instead. That lasted another five minutes.

But even Soy was entranced with the spinning pen.

Tryt explained as it spun, “Before time was time, there was a King of the Mountain. He ruled the world along with his brother, the King of the Valley, and his sister, the Queen of the Sea. But the King of the Mountain wanted to rule alone. An advisor, a fairy himself, told the King of the Mountain about two hidden wells of legend. One held all of the good magic in the world: the ancient Well of Lore. The other held all of the evil magic, known as the Well of Rile. The fairy told the King of the Mountain that if he could control these wells, he would become more powerful than his brother and sister combined. That very day, the King of the Mountain enslaved his entire kingdom, magical and non-magical creatures alike, charging them all with finding the wells. It was a group of eight dwarves, being the most skilled at digging, who found the wells deep within a mountain.”

“Eight dwarves?” I repeated.
 	“Yes, eight. Why?” Tryt inquired.
 	“Just used to hearing seven. Please, keep going,” I said.
 	He continued, “However, the dwarves did not go back and tell their king as he had commanded. Because of his cruelty, the dwarves used the magic of the wells to craft two pens and a book instead. The first pen was made with the most powerful magic from the wells. It had the ability to create tales from nothing, and make them real. This pen is known as the Author Pen. It is the pen you were drawing.”

“So, if you write something, it comes true?” I asked. Deli nodded, then gestured for me to keep listening.

“Next they crafted the pen you see before you, using a strong, but less powerful magic. Then the dwarves dipped a blank mining ledger into the wells, creating The Book of Lore. As I have said, only these two magical pens are powerful enough to write on its pages. And when a story is completed within the Book of Lore, it becomes known to all the kingdoms in every corner of the globe, so that the world may learn from them.”

I stared at the book with a new sense of wonder.

Tryt explained, “The dwarves used the power of the Author Pen to make sure that the King of the Mountain would never find the wells for himself. Unable to find them and use their magic, the king was not strong enough to defeat his brother and sister. He was banished, and the “Mountain and Valley” became known simply as the “Land”. All of the great leaders for centuries to come were descended from one of the two remaining, wise siblings.”

“What happened to the pens after that?” I asked.
 	“A fairy stumbled upon the dwarves at the wells. He had been hiding from the greedy king, deep inside the mountain, refusing to be enslaved,” Tryt said. "The dwarves decided to give the second pen to the fairy, to keep it safe, and to pay for his silence. But they charged him with much more than just protecting its magic. The fairy would have to be the one to record the tales and would use his brethren to watch these stories unfold. All would know the tales of good and evil, and the pen would seal the fate of villains defeated. They dubbed this pen the Fairytale Pen, and that is what it is used for to this day. This is how fairies became storytellers," said Tryt with pride in his voice.

“This all sounds a bit...made-up-ish,” said Soy.
 	“I assure you, every word of it is true,” Tryt stated firmly.

Suddenly, I understood why Tryt was taking all of this so seriously.

“You’re the fairy in the mountain, aren’t you?” I asked.
 	“I am,” he said.
 	“The one who was hiding?” Soy asked me, the same way that he asked me about characters in movies (during the movies).
 	“Seems like it,” I whispered.
 	Soy looked triumphant when he whispered back, “Hmph...hiding.”
 	“And the Author Pen, did they give that to you as well?” I asked.
 	Tryt shook his head. “I tried to convince the dwarves to let me care for it as well, but they kept it buried in the mountain. They had decided that no creature should hold both, and used the pen to made it so. I am blocked from finding the wells again, and their story is concealed by magic in the Book of Lore. Instead, they left us with this poem engraved on the inside cover."

Tryt flipped to the front of the book and pointed to the grey inside cover. As the words settled into English, we read:

One pen we place in fairy’s hands, lest history be lost.

One pen we keep inside these buried wells at any cost.

If ever there is dire need to find the Author Pen,
 	A hero true of mind and heart will hold it once again.

Find the hero’s mark, and you will make the quest begin.
 	He alone can reach the wells and find the pen within.
 	Two guides to aid: an expert on the foe they soon will face,

A second known for loyalty, nobility, and grace.

But such a heavy burden, beg the hero to beware.
 	To write more of their fate in ink, we dwarven do not dare.

I read the poem three times, trying my hardest to remember every word.

“Nobility and grace! It’s like they knew me,” said Soy.
 	“Yes, speaking of that...” said Tryt to Deli.
 	“It’s him,” she said immediately. “He’s the companion. I’ve seen the loyalty part. The rest will come in time.”
 	Tryt resigned himself and got back to us. “So you see, the Author Pen was locked in the mountain and nobody but the hero can get to it. That’s why we need you.”
 	“Then there’s one thing that I still don’t understand,” I interrupted. “Where’s the dire need?”
 	“What do you mean?” asked Deli.
 	“If this hero is me, then I’m the only one who can find this pen, right? So why did the fairytale need to begin. Ream can’t get it without me. So, where’s the urgency? Why not leave it there.”

Deli’s face turned pale. Well, pale green.

“Ream is taking fairies.”

“He’s what??” asked Soy.
 	Tryt replied with a purposeful voice. “For years now Ream has been taking fairies from us. Some he converts into spies, and others… well, we don’t know what’s happened to the others.”
 	“You see, that’s why we need your help!” said Deli with emotion in her voice. “If you don’t get that pen and stop Ream, soon there will be no fairies left at all.”

The fairies’ interest at our arrival made even more sense. I wasn’t just a random person to them, I was suppose to be their hero. At that moment, I knew that’s who I needed to be, whether I liked it or not.

“Let’s not waste any more time, then. If I’m the only one who can stop Ream, then I’d better get to it,” I declared.

Suddenly the pen glowed brighter, and Tryt started flipping through the pages of the book again, settling back on the most last story. My story. He scribbled down some words, but covered the rest of the page.

“Look at that,” Deli said looking over the page with an enormous smile, "it looks like the hero has finally taken his place in the story."
 	“There it is!” shouted Soy, “There’s your name!”

The line read: “Within Pavidale, the meeting of the four had concluded. So began Cal’s quest for the pen.”

13. Road Trip.
It was time to go. Still, I wanted to know as much as I could from The Book of Lore.

“Can we see Ream’s fairytale?” I asked politely.
Tryt shut the book swiftly, again.

“I’m afraid not,” he answered. "That story is not yet completed, and I’ve already shown you too much. It’s time to go.”

Deli agreed.

Tryt escorted us out the back of the garden. As we passed under another ornate archway, we stepped onto a path made of stone. It lead us to a wooden platform near the edge of the cloud. From inside, the cloud had a slightly blue color to it, like a lighter shade of sky.

Every once in awhile, a fairy would fly in through the cloud wall onto the platform, and the spot where they entered shimmered with orange for a moment. I figured that this must be the right way to enter Pavidale. I felt even more embarrassed that I had entered by dropping my bed into a pond. But, in fairness to me, it’s not like there was a sign…



On the very edge of the platform, my bed was waiting, fully restored to its normal, dry self. Even our backpacks were there, looking as full as ever. A few fairies were still working on the bed, using instruments and contraptions I had never seen before. I wished that I could inspect them closer up.

“Wait a second, we’re going back on the bed?” Soy asked.
“The bed knows where the mountain is,” Deli said.
“Well, there are planes and cars and boats too. And they know where things are, when you tell them. It’s called GPS,” he responded.
“And do you know what GPS stands for?” she asked.

Soy looked at me.

“Global positioning system,” I whispered softly.
“Globule position sanctity,” Soy boasted.
Deli smiled. “Close enough. And to use it, you need an exact location. Nobody knows where the mountain is without magic. That’s why only a vessel using lore can find it.”

Deli hopped on the front of the bed, and I followed behind. Soy climbed up slowly in protest.

“Ask anyone who’s not a magical frog: planes are better than beds,” he mumbled.

“I told you I’m not a frog,” she said.
“But you haven’t told us what you are, and frog is still the most obvious choice,” Soy argued.

It was the same logic Soy had used with me many times. When I had a secret that he wanted to know, he would make a guess that was ridiculously wrong and then assume it was right until I told him otherwise. It worked on me. Every. Single. Time.

I felt like Deli was telling the truth, that she wasn’t a frog, but that didn’t mean I was any closer to knowing what she was.



Tryt flew to the front of the bed with impressive speed.

He addressed only Deli, “He doesn’t have to go with you two, you know.”
“He does,” she answered, “and you know that. Besides, I have a feeling he’s more valuable than you think.”

Tryt did a graceful flip to the back of the bed. We all prepared to depart.

“We will return when Ream is defeated, and the pen is safe again,” announced Deli.

I turned around and realized that the all the fairies were on the platform watching us, and there were even more of them than when we first arrived. I saw young fairies flying around clumsily and older fairies using their wings to hold themselves upright. I had the sad thought that there used be far more fairies in Pavidale, before the yellow dragon started taking them… before my fairytale began.



Deli started punching commands into the phone, but Tryt stopped her.

“That won’t be necessary,” he said. “I will create a current for you to ride on. It will work with the bed to take you straight there and, as long as you don’t stray, you will go much faster."

Deli looked at him with gratitude and bowed her head.
“It is important for Cal to get there without delay. If I can do anything to help, I will,” he added.

Tryt began to glow much brighter. His face became hard to see. In fact, he started to look like he was just a pink ball of light.



I looked ahead at the wall of the cloud. It was fascinating. A hole with an orange outline started to form in front of us, shooting off sparks like a lightning storm. The fairies got behind us and pushed the bed forward. As the front of the bed peeked out of the cloud, I saw that there was nothing below us. In a few seconds, the bed tipped down and we started to plummet. The air was cold enough to sting my face.

Before I could get scared and without warning, an invisible river of air caught us from below and quickly carried us away. I turned to see the cloud one last time. The fairies were filling the hole with their faces to watch us as it closed. Tryt was in front. The glow on his face began to fade as the hole finally shut. Pavidale was a special place, and I hoped that one day I would visit the home of the fairies again. The wind was cutting through us, as I remembered that unless I defeated Ream, there may be no fairies left to visit.

14. Over the Seventh Sea.
The current we were riding started turning red as we got further away from Pavidale. It stretched out ahead of us for what must have been miles, with no end in sight. Tryt had been right about one thing for sure; we were going twice as fast as we had on our way to Pavidale.

Deli tinkered with the phone and put the shield up so that we could relax. Still, it was twenty minutes before Soy and I felt comfortable enough to sit back.

“So, what happens when we get to the mountain?” I asked.

“Truthfully, I don’t know much,” said Deli.

After a few minutes, she spoke again.

“There are supposed to be three tests that you must pass before you can find the wells.”

“What are they?” I asked.
 	“I meant it when I said that I don’t know much,” she answered.

The bed had completely settled into the current by then, and the ride was smooth. I saw land pass by to the north or south… or east or west (I had gotten turned around in the cloud), but mostly we flew over sea. Occasionally we would see tiny islands below us. Soy asked if we could fly down and stop at the first three, but Deli refused each time.

“Tryt’s current won’t last forever. He told us to stay on course and that’s what we’re going to do,” she told Soy.

“But there might be hidden treasure down there. Pirates love hiding treasure on islands like that!” Soy rebutted.

I decided not to weigh in, until the third time.

“Soy, if we find the wells, defeat Ream, save the fairies, and make it out alive, I promise we can come back and explore an island.”

Soy stopped asking. Any objection to that would mean that he doubted our return, and nobody wanted to do that.

The few clouds that speckled the sky formed and disappeared quickly, like puffs of smoke. Later on, the current took us straight inside a thin white cloud that gave me a nice feeling as we flew through. There was nothing inside though, not like Pavidale. I was beginning to like clouds more and more, until I spotted a dark one.

At first it was just a black spot in the distance. We sat in awe as it grew larger and larger ahead of us. Closer up, I could tell that it was actually dark grey. There was flashing all over it, like a lightning storm was raging inside. Eventually, it was almost all that we could see. I got a queasy feeling in my stomach when I recognized the shape it had taken: a ferocious ocean wave. It was a cloud filled with rile.

“Um, Deli,” I asked. “Can we get off the current now?”

Deli jumped to the controls and began pushing buttons. I didn’t notice anything change. She started pushing them more frantically. Nothing happened. I tried grabbing the wheel but it was glued to the bed and wouldn’t budge.

“What’s going on Deli?!” Soy screamed as the wall of darkness loomed. It must’ve been the largest storm cloud I had ever seen.

“I don’t know!” Deli yelled back. “The cloud is pulling us in!”

“What can we do?!” I cried.


But I never heard an answer. The dark cloud swallowed us whole.

15. Stormside.
The cloud was hollow, just like Pavidale. I doubted this place had a nice name of its own, or any name at all. It was empty and sad. There were some deep holes among the layer of rocks that covered the ground. I imagined this cloud might be home to some nasty creatures, but nothing was there to greet us.

The bed, it turned out, couldn’t fly inside the cloud and started to dip the moment we entered. We hit the ground hard and skidded to a soft stop.

“It’s the rile,” said Deli. "It’s too strong for the bed to work in here.”

I was surprised to find that I could see fairly well. The whole place was lit by a dim red light coming from another small pond, just like in Pavidale. But this pond looked mean and gloomy.

We all sensed it was probably best to whisper.

“How do we get out of here? Can we push the bed back out?” I asked.
 “It will just suck us right back in,” Deli said. "We’ll need to carry the bed across to the other side.”
 	“You’re crazy!” Soy said in an angry whisper. “This looks like the same place from my nightmares! And they never end well!”
 	“What do you suggest we do then?” she asked coolly.
 	“Call up the fairies and get them to pick us up with a new bed. A king-sized one this time. 	I’ll wait here,” Soy said as he sat cross-legged and cross-armed.
 	“That’s not going to happen, Soy. There’s no way to reach them from in here,” she replied.

“Well, too bad, because I’m not moving. I’m pretty positive that those holes are filled with monsters," Soy responded. "And you’re going to get gobbled up. Gobbled. Right. Up.”
 	“Will you talk to him, please?” Deli said, turning to me.

Soy was pretending to chew while he stared at Deli. “OM NOM NOM NOM,” was all he would say.

I sat down next to him.

“Soy, I know this isn’t what you signed up for when you became my best friend.”

He nodded dramatically.
 	“But, I need you. And those fairies need you even more than I do,” I pleaded.
 	Soy wasn’t moved.

“If you walk across this cloud, you’re going to get eaten by the green hog monster things in those holes. And I’m not going to watch it happen.”

I understood now that he wasn’t just angry, he was worried. Worried for me. But my mind was racing from what he had said.

“Soy, how do you know what’s in those holes?” I asked.
 	“I told you, this place is just like the one from the nightmare I’ve had dozens of times. And I always get eaten!” he whimpered.

I looked at Deli. She’d heard it too.

“Soy… you’re here to save us,” I said.
 	“What?” he asked.
 	“There’s a reason you had those dreams, Soy, just like there’s a reason why my bed can fly. You were always meant to be my guide. You got gobbled up in those nightmares, so that we wouldn’t get gobbled up in real life. You are the only one who can get us through this cloud.”
 	He opened his mouth, but before he could speak, I repeated, “The only one.”

He sat there for a moment, staring at the ground. Then he looked back towards the cloud wall that we just passed through. Finally he let out a big sigh, and rose to his feet.

“Right," he said, “Cal, grab the other side of the mattress, then both of you get behind me. We need to move quickly. I think I may have figured the way out last time.”
 	“Got it, Soy. I trust you,” I told him.
 	“So do I,” said Deli.

She jumped on the bed as we lifted it up. It wasn’t heavy, but it wasn’t light. From where we stood, the far end of the cloud looked at least two football fields away, but it was hard to tell. I started to notice that the holes weren’t the only obstacles in our way. There were bumps in the ground that looked like small hills, and some tall, scraggily looking trees.

It took Soy and me a minute to get our steps in sync, but once we did we moved well together. Soy weaved the bed in-between the holes deftly, and periodically stopped to change course. He had made it clear that under no circumstances should we make noise. Apparently, in his dreams, making too much noise tended to get him eaten. A lot.

At that moment, in the dark cloud filled with rile, with monsters sleeping below our feet, Soy was leading us. And he was doing it well. We made it about halfway through without any trouble, but then it looked like Soy was stuck. There were three large holes in front of us and a few trees to our right. I spoke softly.

“What is it?” I asked.
 	“I’ve seen these holes before,” he whispered back, “and I’ve never gotten past them. There are hog monsters in each one. The middle one has the biggest.”

He turned to face me. “Bigger than a truck.”

Deli and I sat patiently while Soy planned our next move. He motioned for me to turn the bed on its side and led us to the skinny trees. As we squeezed between them, Soy and I were careful not to touch a single branch. I looked closely at the lowest one and realized the true danger. What I thought was a leaf wasn’t a leaf at all. It was a sleeping animal. It had long claws that wrapped around the branch three times, and its wings came together to form a flat surface that made it resemble a humongous leaf. It wasn’t just this one creature that worried me really; it was the 500 more that were sleeping above it.

Once we passed through the trees, we came to a low, rocky hill. It was steep enough to make me tired, and Soy was getting winded, too. When we got to the top, we had no choice but to rest for a minute. At the far foot of the hill was another hole and two more trees, larger than the batch we had just passed. It would be difficult, but we could make our way through if we were careful and took our time.

Soy laid down on the bed while Deli took a moment to take stock of how much ground we had covered. I was the only one looking forward, so I was the first one to see the light. It wasn’t like any other light inside the cloud. It was a dull yellow glow coming from inside the hole at the bottom of the hill. But I knew that it wasn’t actually yellow… it was stonegold.

“Soy… Deli,” I said with a tremble, “Look!”

They turned in time to see Ream fly up from inside the hole, spreading his wings. He had found us.

I hadn’t seen his full body in the school. The auditorium wasn’t large enough for him to show his full form. Ream’s wings were larger than I could have possibly imagined. He was the King of Dragons, and I was frozen in fear. My heart beat out of my chest. My legs locked in place. I felt smaller than I ever had before. Ream flapped his wings and sent a tornado of wind towards us.

“So, this is the hero that you send to his doom?” bellowed Ream. “The boy named Cal?” He bared his teeth and looked at me with a glint of gold in his eyes.

“You will not touch him!” shouted Deli, “You will not speak his name!”

She jumped in front of me, trying to shield me. She was no larger than one of his claws. As a frog she could not protect me from a dragon. This was not a battle that she could win. But, she did it all the same.

I felt like I might cry. Then, without a word, Soy stepped up next to Deli, and I did. My best friend, Soy, standing between me and a dragon. Ream started to laugh, like he was happy that they had.

“This will be easier than I thought” mocked Ream. “You have failed again, Delilah. Your hero cries.”

But Ream didn’t understand. There are all kinds of tears. Some tears are for a sad rainy day, and some are too happy for just words. Some don’t even tell you why they’re there. But, then there are tears that have fight inside them. Those were the tears that found me. I promised myself that we would be leaving that cloud.

I picked up a rock and took aim behind us. There was only one hole that I wanted to hit. When I made the baseball team last spring, I practiced throwing a ball against the wall every day after school, and it was about to pay off. I squared my shoulders and feet, and brought my arm back. Hurling the rock with all my strength, I watched it fall out of sight into the hole. We didn’t have to wait long.

The monster came barreling out within seconds. I could see why Soy had called it a hog. Its snout was long and flat with pulsing nostrils, and I could see long, sharp teeth even with its mouth closed. It came forward on four legs with a row of spikes shooting up from the top of its back.

“Yep, they’ll do that,” said Soy.

The creature was so mad that it spit as it stomped the ground.

Ream flapped his wings and flew back slightly, but not in retreat. He was laughing again.

“You think that a warlug will save you? What do you think was in this rock hole before I got here? They make for delicious meals!” he said.

The warlug, a name I had just learned, took a moment to look around and then charged up the hill towards us.

“Grab the bed and follow me!” I yelled.

We started down the hill as fast as we could. Ream was content to watch the chase unfold. It seemed to amuse him. We were almost at the bottom when the warlug reached the top of the hill. He ran straight downhill at a blistering pace.

When the ground leveled off, I made Soy help me prop the bed up between two trees. We were careful not to touch any branches. We had barely finished when the warlug closed in on us. Ream knew that we couldn’t outrun it, and he smirked.

I looked at my two companions.
 	“When I say so, jump to the right,” I said.

We hid behind the bed as the warlug charged towards us with furious speed. It was ten yards away, then five. I could hear its angry breath from behind the mattress.

“Now!” I yelled.

We jumped out from behind the mattress, beyond the trees that held it up. The warlug saw us and tried to change course at the last second, but it was too late. Its body went sideways, and its momentum carried it forward. Its body crashed into the trees, hard enough to shake them to their roots. And that was exactly what we needed it to do.

In a single moment, every sleeping eye on the trees had opened, and the winged creatures fluttered up. Over a thousand leafy creatures went parading into the sky. They blocked out everything else from sight, including Ream.

“Let’s go,” screamed Deli.

We grabbed the bed, and Soy took the lead again. Without second guessing, we sprinted past hole after hole. From above us, Ream let out a deafening roar. I looked back for just a moment to see the creatures swarming him from every angle.

We were almost to the cloud’s edge when the holes ahead began to come alive with noise. Warlugs were stirring inside. By the time some of the hogs started rising, we had just three more holes to pass. The first two were empty, but I saw a particularly spiky warlug poking his head out of the last one. He saw us just as we were about to pass and we only had a second to decide what to do.

“Jump!” shouted Soy.

Soy vaulted above the warlug as it eyed me up behind him. I took one step straight onto the top of its head and launched myself forward, flipping onto the bed. It chomped down on the empty air and let out a groan. As I landed, the mattress hit the ground.

The warlug’s hole had a slope of dirt on the other side that led directly to the cloud’s edge. The mattress skid down bumpily. Soy couldn’t outrun it and got scooped up when it hit his legs. Deli was between us again. Without a sound, we slid out of the dark cloud and onto the current, which had been waiting for us in the quiet night sky.

16. Boy Meets Frog, Again.
I spent the next hour staring out the orange shield, down onto the ocean. Nowhere felt safe. Ream had found us in the middle of the sky. He’d known where we would be, and he’d been waiting. But when I finally decided to speak, it was about something else entirely.

“Deli, what did Ream mean when he said that you’d failed, again?” I asked.

Deli, looked exhausted. “I guess it’s as good a time as any to tell you,” she said.

She hopped in front of us, and began to explain.

“I was a hero once, and Ream was my villain. He was the fiercest that we had ever seen, and the first to have been named King of the Dragons. Back then, Ream had been taking elves and making them fight for him. Tryt said he’d never seen a creature so skilled at building an army. It was my job to defeat him, to make sure that he could never hurt anyone ever again, and it was a great honor to face him. Tryt told me they would be telling our tale until the end of time. Except, it didn’t go the way it was supposed to.”

“No kidding,” said Soy. I nudged him from behind. We lost the backpacks in the dark cloud and Soy was getting hangry (hungry and angry).

Deli went on. “The plan was for me to find him in his lair using a secret entrance. The fairies had found it for me, behind a waterfall. I would catch him by surprise and defeat him with my stonegold bow. Except, that’s not what happened. I found the entrance and swam in through a small rock pool. But, when I crawled out, Ream was waiting for me with his army of elves. I held them off as best I could for as long as I could, but eventually I was cornered. With almost all the magic I had left, I was able to guide one last stonegold arrow at Ream, wounding him. I used the last of my lore to create this disguise and jump into a stream that run through the walls to the base of the waterfall. The blow helped break Ream’s magical hold on the elves, but he had gotten away. Tryt tried to find Ream himself, but he was never able to. I had failed. Ever since then, Ream has been gathering his strength and building his new army. His fairy army.”

“Why you? Why was it your job to save the elves?” I asked.

“Because I was their leader. I am their princess,” she said.
 	“You… are an elf princess?” Soy said in disbelief.
 	“Elven princess,” she corrected.

“Why not change back then?” I asked.
 	“I can’t. I am bound by the story, just as Ream was bound with the stonegold. Until Ream is defeated, I am stuck in this disguise.”

Soy began to fidget a lot more than usual.

“So, um, what kind of stuff do you like? If you even like stuff, I mean? What’s like, your favorite of the stuff?” he asked Deli.
 	“Soy? What are you doing?" I whispered.
 	“She’s an elf princess! I’ve never talked to an elf princess!”

“Elven princess,” she corrected.

“Exactly!” he said.

Deli jumped on Soy’s shoulder and whispered something into his ear. Soy’s face changed, and he stopped fidgeting. Deli and I made our way to the front of the bed.

“Don’t worry,” I told her, “this time, we’re going to win.”
 	Deli smiled back at me. “I hope that you’re right.”

She pointed ahead, and I saw a dark brown mountain rising from the middle of the ocean. It had a bit of snow on top and was surrounded by a forest below.

“The dwarves set the mountain adrift to make sure that no one could chart a map to it without lore,” Deli explained.

The current was winding us down towards the mountain. There was an opening between two orange trees at its base.

“What did you say to Soy?” I asked her quietly as we descended.
 	She whispered, “I told him that I’ve been watching you two for a while. I know that he refuses to go to school every morning without his rocketship underwear. So, he has nothing to be nervous about in front of me.”
 	“Every morning?” I whispered.

“Every morning. They don’t make them anymore, so his mom can’t buy extra pairs. She has to wash them every night. If they aren’t ready in time, he throws a fit.”

“Oh,” I said.

I made a mental note not to forget about the rocketship underwear.

17. The Mountain.
The entrance to the mountain was the mouth of a large cave. It was easy to walk in, almost like it had been waiting for us. But once we were inside, things got a lot trickier.

The way was lit with torches that burned violet. They led us down a path that ended abruptly at a stone wall with five wooden doors. Each door was painted a different shade of orange (they were all pretty dull from age). They weren’t tall, as far as doors go. I thought that maybe the dwarves had built them at their own height. And there were words above them, engraved onto a silver plate.

“What does it say?” asked Deli, who was now squinting through her glasses.

I read the plate aloud:

To find the door, you must be clever,

Else you will be lost forever.
 	No amount of magic spells,

Will aid you if you seek the wells.

Don’t forget the trodden trail,

For those who do are doomed to fail.

“What does that even mean?” asked Soy.

“I’m not sure.” I answered. “Deli?”

Deli was biting her miniature glasses. For a moment, I thought that I saw a shimmer from inside her mouth.

“It’s some kind of clue. We need to find the right door to get to the wells.”

“This is easy,” said Soy impatiently, “let’s just try each door, one by one, and look inside.”

He strode forward to open the door closest to him, second from the left. It was a pale orange door with a carving of an antelope in the center.

“Soy! Stop!” I yelled as I lunged toward him.

The moment that Soy turned the wooden knob, the door flew in away from him. Soy was being pulled in, too. I reached him in time to grab his other arm and we fell to the ground. I pressed my feet against the wall to pull harder, desperately trying to keep him from being sucked in.

“Close the door!” yelled Deli behind us.

I saw through the opening that this door led to another dark cloud, even scarier than the one we had barely escaped. But something else was different about it, too. Instead of seeing a long field of rock with trees ahead of me, I was looking at a far away wall with holes that faced me. Warlugs jumped out towards us, then fell back away. This door was in the top of the cloud.

The words, “Else you will be lost forever" hit me with a chill. Using all my strength, I pulled Soy until he was free from the doorway. The moment he cleared it, the door slammed shut behind him. We rested on the dirt floor, both out of breath. When I looked at the door again, I didn’t see an antelope. Instead, the door had a carving of a lion on it. The color changed slightly as well. Deli hopped over to us, just as frazzled as we were.

“Deli,” I asked, "did the doors just...”
 	“Yes,” she stopped me short. “The doors must change each time one is opened.”
 	“But wherever the antelope is, we know never to open that one again, right?” Soy asked, still catching his breath.

Deli looked upset, and I understood why. The doors in front of us were now a serpent, a lion, some kind of fish, a spider, and a rhino. No antelope.

“I think the doors are trying to tell us something,” said Deli.
 	“That no matter what we do, every door we open will be for the first time,” I finished.

“That’s unfair!” cried Soy. “They can’t do that!”

Soy had almost been sucked into a dark cloud, so I could understand why he was upset. I gave him a minute to cool off and turned my attention to the plate. My mom had taught me that when I don’t understand something, I should take it apart piece by piece. Maybe, I thought, that was what I needed to do with the clues.

The first verse seemed pretty straightforward. To find the right door, we were going to have to be smart. We also knew what might happen if we chose wrong again. The second verse was no mystery either. We couldn’t use lore to find the wells. That meant that Ream wouldn’t be able to use rile to find them, either. Although, he couldn’t get to them without me, anyway. But the last verse was the tricky one. Don’t forget the trodden trail.

“Hey Deli,” I asked without taking my eyes off the plate, “what exactly does trodden mean?”
 	“It means that it’s been walked on before, like a path that’s already been taken,” she answered.

I thought about the story Tryt had told us. The dwarves who found the wells made it almost impossible for anyone else to find them again. So if there was a “trodden” path, it must have been theirs. But how did they find them in the first place? I had hit another dead end. Tryt never told me which way they went to find the wells. In fact, he had only told me one thing about them, really.

Suddenly it hit me. I read the clue one more time and it all made sense!

“That’s it!” I shouted.
 	“What is?” asked Deli.
 	“The trodden trail is the way that the dwarves got there,” I said.
 	“Okay,” said Soy, perking up. “But we don’t know how. The clue says that we have to pick the right door, and we still don’t know which one it is. I’m not up for guessing another door, or actually guessing at anything ever again.”
 	“But it doesn’t say pick the door. It says, ‘to find the door, you must be clever.’ The door is hidden!”
 	“So… where is this hidden door?” asked Deli pointing to the empty room.
 	“The dwarves found the door because they’re the best diggers. It should be right where they left it, under our feet!”

Deli suggested digging in the center of the room, but I disagreed. There was an area of dirt to the left of the doors that seemed right to me. I couldn’t explain it, so I asked them to trust me. After a few minutes of digging with our hands, Soy and I felt the first sign of the sixth door.

It’s a good thing we found it when we did, because Soy was beginning to get annoyed with Deli. She was directing his digging, and Soy didn’t take kindly to direction from what he described as a “non-digging frog”.

The wooden door that we discovered wasn’t orange like the others, but purple. I cleared off the top and bottom, getting it dirtier before it got cleaner. There was another difference about this door compared to the others. The carving in the center wasn’t of an animal; it was a shape that I could now recognize easily. It was a fairy. And something told me that the carving would never change, no matter how many times we opened the door.

“Do the honors, Cal,” said Soy.

I opened the door slowly, not knowing what would pop out at us, or suck us in, but there wasn’t much to see. It was a black tunnel. It was impossible to tell where it led, since only the first few feet were visible. Beyond that, only darkness. I took a breath.

“I’ll go first,” I told them.
 	“Are you sure?” Deli asked.
 	“Yes,” I replied. “It’s why I’m here. I need to get to those wells.”

I had started to lower myself down into the dark hole when Soy grabbed my arm.

“Cal,” he said with a concerned voice.
 	“Yeah, Soy?” I asked with a smile.
 	“It’s just, if there’s something horrible down there… make sure you yell up really loudly, so I know not to follow you,” he said.
 	“Sure, Soy,” I answered without the smile.
 	“I’ll be mad if you don’t,” he added.

Deli rolled her eyes.

“Rocketship underwear,” I thought to myself.

I dangled my legs over the edge first. When I finally let go of my grip, I immediately regretted it. I had counted on the tunnel walls curving beneath me, but they went straight down. I started falling fast, not sure if I was screaming out loud or just in my head.

I could barely think at all. I’d never fallen so far in my life and had no idea what was waiting for me at the bottom. The tunnel seemed to go on forever. Finally, I started to scrape the sides with my back. More and more of my back touched the tunnel, slowing me down. The walls got smoother and took most of my weight. My fall had turned into a slide, and I was starting to level out. The ride ended when I was ejected out onto a landing. There was a rich purple lake glowing in front of me. The lake was the only source of light, showing off a stubby, wooden dock that jutted out over the liquid.

I thought that I must be deeper underground than I had ever been before. It was hard to tell how long I had been falling. My guess was somewhere around three minutes. I called back into the tunnel, not knowing if Deli and Soy had any shot of hearing me.

“Hello! Deli! Soy! I’m OK!” I yelled.
 	To my utter surprise, I could hear them like they were only a few feet away.

“What took you so long to say something, then?” Soy asked suspiciously.

“Because...I was falling,” I said. “…For a while,” I thought.
 	“Are there monsters with you?” he asked.
 	“No, Soy. Come down and bring Deli, but be careful on the way down.”

I could hear him whisper to Deli, “See, but that’s exactly what a monster would make him say.”

I decided to use the acoustic phenomenon to my advantage.
 	“Soy, you can hear how close I am. If there were monsters you’d hear them too,” I said. "Just jump down. I can still see you from where I am.”

Eventually, Deli convinced Soy that it was worth the risk. They jumped in after me.

18. Sebastien.
I didn’t have to wonder how long the fall was after that. I listened to Soy scream at the top of his lungs for about two minutes before he was deposited on the ground in front of me, with Deli on his stomach. She looked as though she had actually enjoyed the experience.

“See, now that’s the kind of fun we should be having more of!” she said.
 Soy pointed his fingers at both of us and said, “You, Cal, are a liar. And royalty or not, you, are a weird little frog.”

Deli hopped up towards the dock and inspected the lake.

“Oh, my!" she gasped.
 	“What is it?” I asked worriedly.
 	Deli replied, "This lake has rooze in it. It’s the waste that’s left over when rile and lore are used in large quantities. It occurs naturally, but there’s a reason why it is buried so deep in the mountain. As legend goes, it turns anything it touches into food for magical creatures.”

“What are you saying? It could transform us into dragon food?” asked Soy.
 	“Or warlug food or troll food or ogre food. The legend doesn’t really specify,” she answered.

I looked across the huge lake and saw another spot of land. It was the only other one in sight. It led to a bright purple door.

“There,” I said pointing. “That’s where we need to go.”
 	“Great. And did you happen to hear about the lake of death in front of us, just waiting to turn us into a Cal and Soy smoothie?” Soy answered with frustration.
 	“I can assist with that," someone said.

The voice we heard came from the dock. A small metal boat had appeared without us noticing. It was towing an even smaller dinghy (the size of a milk crate). A thin rope connected the two.

The voice belonged to a short creature who could barely see over the sides of his boat. His ears rose a few inches above his head, and his pointy snout had silver whiskers. He held a large oar that was at least three times his size. He stepped up and stood on the bow of the boat to reveal himself fully. The grey fuzz on his body seemed to ruffle in a breeze from the lake. There was no way around what I was seeing. This was an abnormally large, talking mouse.

“Who are you?” asked Deli forcefully.
 	“I am Sebastien. I row the boat from this side to that, waiting for passengers,” he answered calmly.

Soy mouthed the word “mouse” at me and pointed towards Sebastien.

“And how many passengers have you had down here?” I asked.
 	Sebastien looked at me with his beady eyes and gave a smirk. “You will be my first.”

“You know, we’re gonna need to revisit that whole ‘animals don’t talk’ thing,” said Soy to Deli.

There was no way across without his boat. That much was clear. Without a word, I stepped inside. It only wobbled a little, but it was enough to make me uneasy. Sebastien held us steady by keeping his paw on the dock.

“Careful now, we wouldn’t want you falling in,” he said with a hint of amusement.
 	“We don’t have a choice,” I said to Deli and Soy, “and there’s no turning back now.”
 	“He’s right,“ said Deli, and she hopped aboard.
 	Soy followed slowly, looking around the boat, and then staring at Sebastien through squinted eyes. Now that we were closer, I could smell the rooze. It smelled like raspberries that had gone bad. Real bad. In fact, if “zombie raspberries” were a thing, they would smell like rooze.

“What do you eat out here, rowing back and forth all day long?” Soy asked him, still suspicious.

Sebastien pushed off with his oar and began turning the boat towards the other side of the lake. The smaller boat followed behind as we moved forward.

“I do not require much food,” he answered.
 	Sebastien rowed us steadily out into the open water, alternating sides with his oar.
 	“And what do we owe you for the trip?” asked Deli.
 	I hadn’t thought of that. If Sebastien set a price too steep, I wouldn’t know what to do.

“There is no cost, Princess,” he answered. “I ask only for your company.”

He had called Deli “Princess”, and we had all heard it. I didn’t know what that meant, but it definitely meant something. Soy was glaring at Sebastien through even smaller eyes. A few minutes later we had reached what I thought was the center of the lake. I could tell because the light glowed brightest there, like a chandelier.

“Hey, Sebastien,” Soy said, “I’ve got some crackers for you in my pocket if you get us there faster.”

Sebastien plunged his oar beneath the surface, and the boat stopped dead.

“I’m afraid I can’t get you there faster. In fact, I can’t get you there at all,” Sebastien said, turning around to face us.

“Hey,” Soy said with concern, “I didn’t mean anything by it. You can row whatever speed you’d like. Just… definitely keep rowing.”
 	“I’m sorry” he replied, “but, there is a leak in the boat, and we cannot continue.”

Sebastien pointed to the middle of the boat. All of a sudden, the purple liquid started to seep into the boat from a hole too small to see. Soy and Deli jumped toward the front with Sebastien, and I scrambled to the back. The putrid smell added to my panic.

The rooze was filling the boat more and more by the second. Deli jumped onto Soy’s shoulders, and we both lifted our feet onto the wooden planks meant for sitting. Sebastien didn’t move.

“What’s happening?” I shouted, “There must be something you can do, Sebastien!”

“There is,” he said. “But only for one of you. The dinghy behind us can fit a single soul. Anything more, no matter the size, and it will sink into the lake forever.”

I stared at Deli and Soy from across the boat. They were scared. I was scared, too.

“It’s got to be you,” said Deli. "You’re the only one who can stop Ream.”

Soy looked at me with a sad smile, and nodded.

“I know you can do it,” he said.

My eyes started to water. I looked at the liquid pouring in and shook my head. Then I turned to look at the dinghy behind me. Finally, I looked back at my friends.

“I won’t,” I said, staring right at Sebastien. “I won’t do it. I won’t leave them. This is not how the story ends.”

Sebastien stared back at me with fierce eyes. Then gave way to a great big smile.

“Very well,” he said laying down his oar. Sebastien jumped down from his perch and landed directly in the purple pool before us. It disappeared in a puff of smoke.

“A fine choice,” he continued. "It is true that my dinghy can only take one soul, but that soul is me, and only me.”

He strode past me, walking on the wooden planks inside the boat, and then jumped inside his dinghy.

“Had you chosen to leave them, you would have perished in the lake,” Sebastien said as he undid the rope connecting us. "Good luck, Cal, and remember one thing: you were chosen for a reason.”
 	“Thank you,” I replied.

I didn’t know what else to say. It was all so confusing. By the time I grabbed the oar at the front of the boat, Sebastien was out of sight. I felt Soy pat me on the back as I started rowing.

“Hey, you didn’t leave us,” he said.
 	“Of course I didn’t,” I replied, wiping my eyes. “I wouldn’t be much of a hero without you two.”

I quickly realized why Sebastien had been rowing so slowly. Any faster and I would risk sending drops from the lake back at my friends. I wasn’t sure what Sebastien’s role was in all of this, but I wondered if I had misjudged him.

It took about ten minutes to reach the dock on the far side of the lake. The two landings were identical, except that in place of a tunnel, this one had an archway with large purple double-doors. Two flaming torches burned on either side. Just like the doors before, there was a carving in the center. This one was a dwarf. Ok, so maybe, I had never seen a dwarf, but it couldn’t really be anything else. The figure had a long braided beard and a wide, brawny face. He held a hammer and a small shovel in his crossed arms. Two of my favorite tools.

“This is it,” I said aloud.
 	“I don’t know what will be on the other side,” Deli warned.

“I don’t think I’d want to know anyway,” said Soy.

With a push from all three of us, the doors swung open.

19. The Wells.
The cavern we entered was about half the size of the entire Stagwood Elementary. I walked forward and felt the dirt and stones crunching underneath. There was no telling how long it had been since someone, anyone had set foot there. To our right was a deep hole with a simple wooden support standing over it. Attached to the crank, a rope was hanging from down, disappearing into the hole. Whatever was inside was glowing the same orange as the shield over my flying bed. To the left there was a similar hole, except that it glowed red.

	I had been picturing wells like the ones I had seen in pictures, but these looked much older. Ancient even.

“Red is for rile,” Deli told us.

That meant the orange well was for lore.

The room was wide open, without anything of note besides the wells. And after our last few run-ins, it’s safe to say we were happy that there wasn’t a creature in sight. There was, however, another plate in the center of the floor though. It sat directly between the wells, and read:

Remember what’s been found and learned.

The pen is not a gift, but earned.

The safest place to hide creation:

Hands that lack imagination.

“Great… another riddle. Cal, you figured out the last one. What does this one mean?” Soy asked me.

“I don’t know yet,” I replied.

We searched around, looking for the pen under every rock and inside every crack. There was no sign of it.

“How do we even know it’s in here?” I asked Deli.

“It’s in here,” she said.

“Where then?” Soy asked. “If it’s down another hole, I quit. We’re going to reach the other side of the world pretty soon.”

It hit me right away.

“Soy! You’re brilliant!” I shouted.

“I know. Why?” he answered.

“There are two holes here already, and we haven’t checked them,” I said.

Deli gave a smile. “Of course!” she said.

I ran over to the Well of Lore, grabbed the handle, and started turning the crank. The rope creaked and groaned as it crawled up towards us. Soy grabbed the handle to help. Deli hopped to the edge of the hole to peer down.

“I see it!” she said. “There’s a bucket coming up!”

By the time I saw the bucket, I was already sure. There was nothing inside. We finished pulling it up, anyway.

“Now what?” asked Soy.

“There’s still one more to check,” I said.

Soy shuddered. “The rile one? Do we have to?”

“We don’t have a choice,” I said.

We went over to the Well of Rile and started cranking again. This time the crank turned much slower. Soy and I were both getting tired when Deli called out.

“I see another bucket,” she said.

I kept cranking, but the muscles in my arms had started to burn. The bucket lurched into sight.

“Keep going. This one looks different!” Deli said excitedly.

When I looked down, I agreed that the inside of this bucket did look different. Something was moving inside. The last few feet were the hardest. When the bucket was finally within reach, I took it off the worn metal hook and set it down carefully next to us.

The inside of the bucket was bad news. Awful even. It was filled to the brim with purple rooze. Except this time, the rooze was much thicker and darker. The smell was overwhelming.

“More of that rooze stuff,” Soy complained.

“This looks stronger,” said Deli.

The pen had to be inside. The words of the riddle floated through my head.

Remember what’s been found and learned.

What had I learned? I had learned that dwarves liked to hide things underground. Soy had already reminded me of that a moment ago. But it wouldn’t help here.

I had also learned that this mountain was filled with tricks (like tunnels that are long and short at the same time). And I had learned from the boat that sometimes making the more dangerous choice is the only thing that will save you. That’s when it hit me. The words gained meaning and I knew what I had to do. I was starting to like these rhyming riddles.

I reached my hand inside the bucket with my right arm, past the surface of the thick rooze.

“What are you doing??” yelled Soy.

I kept reaching until my hand hit the bottom. I expected to feel the pen, and the rooze to disappear like it had in the boat. Neither happened.

Soy put his heads to his head. “Take it out of there or you’ll be monster food!”

“Cal!” cried Deli, with wide eyes.

But it was too late.

The rooze started traveling up my right arm, covering it. And it didn’t stop there. It oozed across my chest. It felt cold and hot at the same time. It made it’s way to my left arm, then down to my wrist.

“Get it off him!” shouted Soy, batting at my arm with his hands.

But when the rooze settled on my left hand it started to condense. It was being pulled and concentrated into my palm, until it formed a new shape. Much smaller. More solid.

When it stopped, I knew without looking that I was holding a pen.

20. The Pen and the Sword.
Just as the pen appeared, we heard fluttering from behind us. Two grey stones came alive and took off in flight out the door.

“What was that?” asked Soy.
 	“I think we’re going to find out,” answered Deli.

With a great swooping noise, the low purple light from the lake was blocked by an enormous figure. The huge, shiny talons on Ream's feet clinked on the ground as he landed. Ducking below the archway, he approached the three of us. He was flanked on both sides by dozens and dozens of fairies.

The fairies looked similar in shape to the ones in Pavidale, but they were not the same. They had no color, only greyness, and moved like they were made of stone. When their wings flapped, they left a trail of dull chalk. These was no brightness or happiness about them.

“So, Cal,” bellowed Ream, “it seems that you’ve finally lived up to your story.”
 	“How did you get here?” demanded Deli.

Ream slowly circled us as he spoke, kicking up dirt and dust.

“Oh, it wasn’t hard once you showed me the right door. I see now that it was under my claws this whole time. To think how many fairies I wasted on those other doors. Oh, well,” he said leaning in closer, “they were only fairies after all.”

Deli was angry.
 	“How dare you!” she shouted.
 	“Hush now, Delilah. There are more important things to worry about. Like how I will roast your new little friend if he doesn’t hand over the pen.”
 	“Don’t you dare!” shouted a voice from behind Ream.

The moment I heard it, I knew that it was the voice of the one fairy who might be able to get us out of this mess.

“Tryt!” I yelled.
 	Tryt came flying in straight past Ream and settled in front of us.

“I followed you here to make sure that nothing went wrong,” he said.
 	“Well, thank goodness you did,” said Deli. “Ream was about to turn us into a meal.”
 	Tryt turned with a smile and said, “Oh, he wouldn’t do that. I gave him strict orders not to damage the pen.”

The words cut me as they settled in.

“You… gave him orders?” said Deli.
 	“That’s right, Delilah," Tryt declared. "Ream has been a valuable ally to me.”

Ream let out a fiery laugh.

“Didn’t you ever wonder how I was able to steal your fairy friends? Or how I knew you’d be in the dark cloud before you even got there?” Ream said with amusement.
 	“Yes," Tryt responded, "I sent them straight to you, Ream, so that you could get rid of Deli and the sidekick, but you didn’t, did you?”

Ream’s toothy smile faded.

“No matter, there’s nothing they can do to stop us now, anyway,” said Tryt.
 	“You betrayed your friends. How could you?” screamed Deli.
 	“Fairies don’t matter. The Author Pen is all that matters,” said Tryt.

Suddenly, it all clicked.

“You’re the fairy from the story, the one who told the king about the wells,” I said.
 	“I thought he was the one who was hiding like a tiny baby?” remarked Soy.
 	“I was both of them, you fool. And I wasn’t hiding!” shouted Tryt. “I was following the dwarves as part of my plan. I used the king and those stubborn dwarves to help me find the wells. But once they did, I couldn’t convince them to give me the pen. At least not the important one. The one that showed the wells’ true power. The pen meant for a king! Instead, they gave me this.” Tryt pulled out the pen he had used to write my story. “The pen of a servant.”
 	“And… Ream?” Deli asked sadly.
 	“A means to an end. When I learned there was a dragon powerful enough to enslave elves, I knew that he was my best chance. That’s why I couldn’t have you defeat him. I warned him of your impending attack, and he was able to escape.”

Ream snarled.

“You did what?” Deli leapt forward. A handful of fairies flew up and intercepted her before she could reach Tryt.
 	“You see the advantage of an army," Tryt said with a laugh. “You see, you freed the elves when you hit him with your arrow, but he kept his rile. Power strong enough to build a new army, for me. An army made for one purpose: to find the Author Pen. I thought an army of fairies would be useful, but it turns out they were better than I could have imagined. When Ream started stealing fairies, he threatened the existence of fairytales, and a hero was chosen. ‘Dire need’, as they say. I had hoped Ream would be able to find the pen without Cal, but the dwarves were craftier than I expected. But no matter. We are here now, and the Author Pen is within my grasp, thanks to all of you.”

The pen burned in my hand. I had done exactly what they had wanted me to do. I had led Ream and Tryt and their army of fairies right to the most powerful tool in the world.

“It was a brilliant plan, wouldn’t you say?” asked Tryt boastfully.
 	“People don’t like it when you call your own ideas brilliant,” Soy interrupted.
 	Deli and I turned to face him.
 	“What? I’m just saying, I’ve been told that a lot,” he said softly.

“What’s in it for you, then?” I asked, turning to Ream, desperate for a way out of all this.

“Oh, not much, just control of all the humans,” he said with a grin that crawled under my skin.

“With just one swipe of a pen, I will make it so. I have little use for them,” said Tryt.

Deli tried to jump free, but no luck. Soy looked at me and motioned with his eyes that he was ready to charge Tryt. I shook my head slightly.

“That’s cute,” noticed Tryt, “but I'm afraid you won’t be a match for an army of fairies and the most powerful dragon ever known. Now hand the pen over, and I will consider letting you leave here in one piece, Cal. I will keep Soy as my own personal servant, however, and teach him some manners… the hard way.”

This wasn’t right. I had promised Soy that I’d get him out of this trouble- that I’d get us all out of this. But at that moment, I didn’t see how. I thought back to the poem. I scrolled through it in my mind, looking for anything that I might have missed, and there it was. The second stanza:

The safest place to hide creation:

Hands that lack imagination.

It was the only verse that hadn’t made sense yet. If the answer I needed wasn’t in those words, then I was lost. I started with the first line. If creation meant the Author Pen, then we had already found where it was hidden. Hadn’t we? But we had found it at the bottom of the Well of Rile. That didn’t sound much like a hand to me. And, as far as I could tell, imagination didn’t play any part in it. I was out of ideas, and I was out of time. Tryt stepped in front of me, with Ream at his back.

“The Author Pen. Give it to me now,” he said.

Tryt reached out his palm towards me. I stared at his pink hand…

The riddle.

I understood.

“I’ll trade you,” I offered.
 	“What?” Ream asked.
 	“Give me the Fairytale Pen, and I will give you mine,” I said.

“Why would I give you any…” started Tryt, but before he could finish, I held the pen out over the Well of Rile.

Tryt took a step back in fear.
 	“Because if you don’t, I’ll drop the pen. Do you know what happens when a magic pen is dropped into a well of rile? Because I don’t,” I said.

“If you do, I will roast every last one of you!” shouted Ream.
 	Tryt closed his eyes for a moment and raised his hand to silence the dragon. “No need, my fiery friend. He can have the Fairytale Pen. It seems fitting for him to be the one to write down the terrible tales to come. Here,” Tryt said, as he tossed the Fairytale Pen to me. “Now hand over the pen before I get angry.”
 	“Don’t do it!” shouted Soy.

But I did. I withdrew the pen from over the well and tossed it to Tryt. He caught it with a flutter.

“I don’t believe it. It’s finally mine!” he exclaimed. “Send in the book!”

Grey fairies flew into the room carrying the Book of Lore that I had seen back in Pavidale, when things seemed so different, and Tryt was still on our side. Tryt flew off to the edge of the room and set to work on the book.

“Shall I finish the frog off?” asked Ream.
 	“Not yet. I want her to see this,” answered Tryt as he opened the book to the pages of my fairytale.

Deli looked at me with sad eyes.

“Oh, Cal. We’ve failed," she sobbed.
 	I shook my head and told her, “Nobody writes my story but me.”

I heard an angry clamor echoing in the great cavern.
 	“It’s not working! Why isn’t it working!” Tryt screamed.

21. The Hero.
I opened my hand and looked at the pen that Tryt had been so ready to give up. I wished harder than I ever had before that I was right. Lifting the pen, I started to write in mid-air.

The first stroke gave off a few sparks, almost too few to notice. But the next stroke made a brilliant line of orange as clear as day.

Ream had taken notice.

“Tryt, did you know that your pen could do that?” Ream asked.
 	“I’m busy!” shouted Tryt, still struggling to write in the book. “Why won’t it let me write what I want!”

The words started coming to me and didn’t stop, as I wrote in the air:

The fairies that the dragon stole,

Were all set free from his control.

The stone fairies started to shed the chalky greyness off their bodies. Their original colors started to shine through. Ream took a step back. The fairies flapped their wings, removing the last remnants of grey, and flew toward the dragon. Soon they had him on the ground, holding his mouth shut to prevent him from breathing fire.

The commotion got Tryt’s attention. “What’s going on?” he shouted.

That’s when he saw my words, etched in the air. They were moving now, towards Tryt. But instead of hitting him, they flew into the book leaving a trail of smoke.

“How did you do that?!” asked Deli.

Tryt tried desperately to write in the air as I had, but nothing happened.

“I don’t understand it! You’re using the wrong pen!” he screeched.
 	“No, Tryt. You are.”

Tryt’s face twisted.

“What do you mean??”

“I think you might find the answer in the beginning of your book,” I said.

Tryt flipped to the first tale of the book, the one that had always been locked. But this time, with the true Fairytale Pen in his hand, he was finally able to turn the pages.

“What does it say?” asked Soy.
 	Tryt read the tale, with fire in his eyes, as I explained, “It tells the story of the King of the Mountain and his siblings. And Tryt, following the dwarves to find the wells for himself.”

“You mean the dwarves knew?” asked Deli.
 	“They must have, because they kept the true Fairytale Pen here in the wells, the one that tells the stories of good and evil. They knew that Tryt would stop at nothing to find the Author Pen, so they kept its identity secret.”
 	“This can't be!" Tryt wailed.
 	I continued, “They hid it in the safest place they could think of ...in hands that lack imagination. Your hands, Tryt.”
 	“All this time, I had the pen! And I never knew?!” Tryt moaned.
 	“Of course!” said Deli. “He values power more than anything, so he couldn’t fathom that the dwarves had given it to him freely… but you could,” she said as she turned to me.

Tryt began to shake with fury.

“Give it me!” he shouted, and flew straight for me.

Before he could reach me, Soy stepped in front and caught Tryt mid-air. He held him down against the ground.
 	“You don’t fly at my friend!” said Soy, “It lacks… manners.”

I quickly wrote in the air above his head.

The fairy’s magic left forever,

Immediately Tryt's pink glow began to fade until his skin was a pale white.

“What have you done to me? You can’t!” he protested.

I thought for a moment, then finished the line.

Tackled by a boy more clever.

Soy gave me a huge smile as he read the words. Tryt spit and sputtered under him. Then I turned my attention to Ream, who was still struggling against the fairies.

I wrote:

The dragon lost his breath and flight,

I had written it just in time. Ream burst out from beneath the fairies, and turned towards us with his mouth wide open. But only air came out.

“What, what did you do to me?” he said. In his anger he hurtled towards me.

Never more to start a fight.

The dragon stopped in his tracks.

“You won’t be causing trouble anymore, Ream. Neither of you will,” I added as I glared at Tryt. I took another few moments to think, and then I started writing in the sky again:

The stolen fairies, safe and sound,

Those they lost would now be found.

The fairies zipped out of the room towards the other side of the lake. I knew they’d be headed straight for Pavidale. And if I had done it right, every fairy who had been sent through those dark cloud doors would be there waiting for them. That thought gave me another idea.

The dragon and his fairy friend,

Were sent away at story’s end,

To live inside a darkened cloud,

Where only warlugs are allowed.

All at once, Tryt was flung from Soy’s grip straight into Ream’s stomach (who was being tugged away much slower).

“This is not over!” said Tryt as he and Ream were dragged by an invisible force.

Ream didn’t say a word. He just smiled a toothy grin at me as they were swept from the room.

My words floated in the air for another second, then flew inside the book. The moment they did, there was an orange flash behind me. Soy and I turned around to see that Deli was the source of it. She had changed. She was no longer a frog. In fact, she was about as far from a frog as you could get. Deli was a tall, pretty elf with long dark hair and pointy ears. Her glasses surrounded big brown eyes and freckled cheeks. Without them, I might not have known it was her.

“Whoa!” said Soy.

She gave us both a warm smile.

“Thank you! Oh, thank you!” Deli said as she ran over and gave us a hug.
 When she pulled away I noticed that she was wearing braces. I guessed they must’ve been hard to see when she was frog.

“But… you’re young. I thought you’ve been around for a long time,” I said.
 	“I have been," she said, “but elves age differently than humans. I’m still a teenager in elf years. That’s why I have to wear these braces. ‘One day that hero will come along and turn you back into an elf, so you’d better take care of your teeth, frog or not!’ my dad is always saying. He’s the King of the Elves,” she said.

“Right, of course,” I remembered.

“Well,” she said, “let’s get out of here before something else happens!”



22. the Lake.
Sebastien was waiting for us at the dock. This time there was no dinghy behind his boat.

“So,” he asked, “how’d it go? Saw an awful lot of fairies and one big dragon leaving in a hurry over my lake.”
 	“It went all right,” Soy said modestly. “I got to tackle an evil fairy.”
 	“Good for you,” said Sebastien sincerely.

We started for the other side of the lake.
 	“What are you going to do with the pen?” asked Soy with excitement.

The pens and the Book of Lore were sitting next to me.

“Well, I think it’s only right to return the book and the real Fairytale Pen back to the fairies,” I said.
 	“No, not that pen. I mean the Author Pen. You can use it to create anything you want! You saw what it did back there!” Soy was getting more and more animated as he spoke.
 	“I hadn’t thought about it,” I answered.
 	“Instead of just doodling you could be creating entire cities! Kingdoms! The possibilities are endless!” Soy said.

Deli placed her hand over mine.
 	“What do you think you should do with it?” she asked kindly.

I looked at Sebastien. He was watching me intently, as well.

His words were running through my head. “You were chosen for a reason.” Deli had said that I thought differently than Tryt, and that was why I discovered the identity of the Author Pen. But that couldn’t be all. Maybe I was chosen so that I could put the pen to good use. There was so much that I could do with it. But… that didn’t seem like the answer either.

Instead of just recording tales in the Book of Lore, Tryt could have been using the pen to create his own version of things. There’s no telling what he would have done if he had known. In their cleverness, the dwarves had tricked him, to conceal the pen’s identity. Above all else, they wanted it protected. And in a way, they were the ones who had chosen me to do it. The needed someone to find the pen who would know what to do with it once the story was over. And I did.

I picked the pen out of my pocket and wrote one last note in small letters, covering it with my other hand. I waited until the words were safely inside the book, then reached my hand out over the side of the boat. I shut my eyes and dropped the pen into the lake.

Deli let out a laugh and gave me a hug.
 	“What? What?... But…What?” was all that Soy could say.

Sebastien smirked at me and continued rowing.

Soy let out a sigh. “Well, I don’t get it, but I don’t get most of this, anyway.”

Soon we were on the other side of the lake. Sebastien pulled us up to the dock and held the boat steady as we stepped out.

“How will we get back up?” I asked him.
 	“Same way you got down,” he answered.
 	“Thank you!” I said as we all waved goodbye.
 	“It was my pleasure. Best fare I ever had,” Sebastien said with a wink.

He disappeared into a purple mist before I could respond. When we approached the tunnel again, I still didn’t know what Sebastien had meant.

“He said, ‘same way you got down’,” Deli repeated.

As I stuck my hand past the opening, felt something odd. There was a gravity inside the hole, pulling me in, same as from the other direction.

“Soy,” I said, “try to enjoy it this time.”

I jumped forward and was immediately falling again- this time upside down. A few minutes later, I was tossed up and into the cave room with the five animal doors. I noticed that the doors were all open and calm.

The only stirring was far away at the bottom of the cloud beyond the middle door. I peered through, down from the top of the cloud. There was a golden dragon and a fairy, surrounded by a circle of warlugs. Moments later, Soy and Deli popped out of the tunnel. I closed the door shut.

Outside the entrance of the mountain, my bed was waiting for us. It was nice to see it again. I probably could have fallen asleep on it right then and there, but I knew there was a lot of traveling left to do, so I climbed on top and took my spot up front.

“Hey Deli,” I asked, “do you know a good place for three heroes to celebrate after an adventure?”
 	“I do,” she responded with a smile.

And with that, we set off for Pavidale on my flying bed.

Epilogue 1
I pressed the SQUEEZE button and felt the bed pinch. With a few more clicks, I was lying in my bed in my room on Windfall Drive. I pulled the pillow and phone hard until they popped out, and then put them back where they belonged. It was a normal bed again, at least for now. I laid down my head, wanting to fall asleep. It felt strange to be back, but I didn’t have much time to dwell on it.

	I could hear my mom on the phone downstairs.

“Where could they be?” she asked frantically.
 	“We’ll go looking again in the morning. Maybe they went camping,” my dad said, trying to hide his own concern.
 	“They ran away from school, took all of the food and a bed to go camping? Who takes a bed camping?!” my mother cried.
 	“They’re kids, they don’t know how to camp. Heck, I don’t even know how to camp,” my father said.

I called down to them, “Mom! Dad!”

They ran upstairs in no time at all and threw open my door. “Cal! You’re okay!” they said, hugging me fiercely.

“Of course I am. Soy and I were out camping is all," I said, too tired to think of a different excuse. My dad gave my mom a knowing grin and a nudge. She was not amused.

“What do you mean camping?! How did you get your bed up here?! What were you thinking? You are more grounded than you’ve ever been in your entire life!” my mom said without taking a breath.

“It’s ok dear, he’s here and he’s safe,” said my dad trying to calm her.

“I’m so happy you’re ok,” she said hugging me again. “But you are in so much trouble. You don’t even know,” she said squeezing me even harder.

I knew that she meant it.

“You look exhausted. We’ll deal with this in the morning. Dad will guard your door tonight to make sure that you don’t sneak out again.”

Now my dad was the one who didn’t look amused. I was in trouble and there was nothing I could do about it. Still, as I drifted off to sleep, I couldn’t help but wonder if there was any way to fish a magic pen out of a rooze lake.

Epilogue 2
	“Soy, were you out with Cal? His mom left me a bunch of frantic messages,” Soy’s mom asked while microwaving some dinner.
 	“Yeah, I told you, we went on a mission to save the world. You never listen to me!” he shouted back at her from up the stairs.

“Okay then, sorry dear,” she said calmly.
 	A few seconds later she heard a loud commotion.

“MOM!” he yelled.
 	“What is it Soy?” she shouted back.

Then came the excited footsteps of Soy barreling down the stairs. When he appeared in the kitchen, he was holding an enormous pile of clothes taller than his head.

“Look!” he shouted.

Soy dropped one hundred pairs of rocketship underwear onto the kitchen floor.

Epilogue 3
Months had passed since our adventure. I was only allowed out of the house for school. My hopes were high that someday soon I’d be released from my punishment. Deli had been away with the elves. She couldn’t tell us what it was about, but she assured us that she’d be back soon. Soy and I didn’t say it out loud, but neither of us could wait to see her again.

I was sitting in class drawing again, listening to another lecture from Miss Weaver.

“The first capital of the United States was actually Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Speaking of which, did I ever tell you that the quarterback for the Philadelphia Eagles was actually a former student of mine?” she began to repeat.

Ever since we visited Pavidale a second time, my daydreams were all about clouds. Some of the time I would doodle the inside of a cloud with lore, like Pavidale, but different. It was somewhere that seemed even farther away. Most times I would draw the inside of a single dark cloud. Every time I did, the inside was a bit different. Structures appeared where there didn’t used to be anything, and little by little it seemed to look more… organized.

That’s when a small ball of paper landed on my desk. Then another hit the right side of my face. I looked across my row and saw Soy staring at me.

“What?” I mouthed.
 	“Low cow hair,” he mouthed back.
 	“What?” I said with a shake of my head.
 	“Look. Out. There.” he mouthed again, pointing to the window next to me.

There was a squirrel sitting on the windowsill. It might be nothing, I thought. Squirrels run around the yard all the time. But, when I looked again, there was no mistaking it, this squirrel was staring inside the classroom, right at me.

What were the odds that this would be happening again? It probably doesn’t mean anything, I thought.

Until I saw its watch.
1. Golden
Gemma was only five minutes away from her parents’ hut, but the jungle had already taken on a different personality. It was thicker. The trees had grown taller. The ti plants shaded the green forest a sinister red. There was no doubt about it- the jungle was more dangerous here, and Gemma loved it. As a baby, Gemma’s parents had taken her on their expeditions over mountains, deserts, and vast seas. It was exciting, unpredictable, and deeply irresponsible. Now that they had settled down in the tropical rainforest, Gemma had to devise intricate plans just to sneak out for morning adventures.




This particular plan hinged on the help of Milo, her ring-tailed lemur. Years of mischief, tom-foolery, and Gemma’s influence had helped Milo develop skills that other lemurs would give theirs rings to have themselves, were such a transaction to be made possible. And on this morning, Milo was lying in Gemma’s bed, wearing a wig made of straw, the same sandy blonde color as Gemma’s hair, snoring loudly. In a stroke of genius, they had even braided it into pigtails to match her style. They tried adding a pair of her old glasses but those kept sliding down his face, given that she had a human-sized head, and his was irreparably lemur-sized.




“I swear, her snoring is getting worse and worse,” said Gemma’s dad from the breakfast table, sipping on a warm tea.




Gemma’s mom raised an eyebrow from across her book.




“It doesn’t even sound human!” he continued.




“You’re exaggerating a little, don’t you think, dear?” Gemma’s mom said.




But he was not. And had either of them walked one room over to check on their daughter, they may have shouted, and woken up a little, groggy primate with straw pigtails.




A short walk away, Gemma brushed past a prickly bush and followed a small break in the twisted liana vines. She came to a wall of leaves and grew excited at the sound of movement ahead. She often felt like she could sense when adventure was near. In fact, she felt it almost every single day, and for the past year, she had been wrong roughly every single time. So, despite the eagerness to find something remarkable, her shock was genuine when she brushed the leaves aside. In a small clearing, no larger than a rock pond, was a black jaguar.

She bravely, confidently, froze.




As she rubbed the condensation from her glasses, Gemma spotted a small mammal underneath the jaguar’s paw. Further rubbing led to further clarity, and she recognized the animal as a golden mole. Both rare and beautiful. A fear rushed in that, if she didn’t act soon, the mole would be eaten or crushed under the jaguar’s leg.




“Oh, Bramblerot!” she whispered.




Half thinking, half not-at-all-thinking, Gemma reached into the brown satchel at her waist and found a small piece of suede. Wrapped tightly inside was her favorite brass bell. It was a dented, old gift from an even older grandma, and Gemma never left it behind when she ventured out. Normally, she reserved for it occasions that required making a lot of noise, but an emergency like this called for something much more risky.




Stepping forward stealthily, Gemma used her other hand to free a thin purple ribbon from her hair, turning her pigtails into a pigtail. She pressed the suede against the bell tightly to make sure that it didn’t attract any unwanted attention. A few paces ahead, and completely unaware of Gemma, the jaguar lifted his paw up for just a moment then pinned the mole down again. Gemma allowed herself a quick and disapproving scowl then focused on the task at hand. She opened the cloth and tied the ribbon around an opening in the brass bell. Then, with the delicacy of a snowflake on a silk napkin at afternoon tea with the Queen, Gemma tied the other end of the ribbon in another knot.




She slid backwards through the leaves and grabbed the closest suitable rock. As the jaguar leaned down with his teeth bared, Gemma tossed it towards the dense jungle to her left.

Without a moment to spare, the jaguar lifted his head, and whipped his body around.




And that’s when he heard a jingle. A strange, suspiciously close, jingle.




He whipped back the other way and heard the jingle again, but all he saw was jungle. He tried prowling around the clearing, looking for the source, but again saw only jungle. The jingles came faster, one after the other. The mole looked on in surprise as the frustration grew. Then, in the type of overreaction that jaguars are known for, he leapt into the deep brush next to him, looking for anything to attack.




Gemma immediately rushed in to grab the wounded golden mole and quickly hid behind the nearest tree. The jaguar ran back into the clearing and looked around with a vicious stare. As soon as he took another step, the bell, which Gemma had fastened securely to his tail, jingled again. Having lost his target, and plagued by the mysterious jingle, the jaguar picked a direction, almost at random, and charged deep into the dark tropical rainforest. When the jingles finally grew quiet, Gemma laid the golden mole down.




“Don’t worry. He’s gone,” she said, petting its head softly. “And he won’t be sneaking up on anyone for a while,” she added with a smile.




The mole wheezed out a tiny giggle then shook out its fur. It looked up at Gemma for a long moment, then scrunched its nose. Without a sound, it dug a hole in the soft earth and dove down.




Gemma watched in awe as it worked its way out of sight at impressive speed. She peered down to catch one last glimpse, but its little feet had disappeared in a flurry of dirt and dust. Gemma looked around. She had maybe ten minutes before her parents would try to wake her up and then find her missing. It was time to head back. Besides, she had found more than enough adventure for one day. Best for her to leave some for the other young explorers out there.




Carefully listening for the jingle of her favorite bell, Gemma weaved through the thick brush until it loosened and gave way to the path that she had personally made, stomp by stomp, over the better part of a year. She was almost to the hut when a small patch of dirt a few steps ahead of her started to move and shake. Approaching slowly, she leaned down and saw the furry face of the golden mole pop up to greet her. It scurried out of its hole and looked Gemma up and down. Gemma waved hello instinctively, as a matter of manners, and with no idea what else to do.




The mole reached into the dirt, pulling out an instrument that Gemma had seen many times before. It was a dark blue compass, set on a weathered chain. Gemma grabbed it with two curious hands, turning it over and around to inspect. The compass itself was older than her bell, she imagined, and built with much greater care. Then she reminded herself that her bell was now a jaguar accessory, and no longer hers at all. By the time she was done thinking, the mole had hopped back down its hole, leaving the compass behind. Gemma decided then and there that golden moles were strange creatures with strange habits. It’s worth noting, however, that this was an unfair generalization and would only serve her poorly.




Later that day, Gemma sat at the kitchen table and watched her parents rush around the hut.

The compass was hanging around her neck, unnoticed. She had never seen them so animated as they gathered their belongings and shouted out questions and commands to each other. It was on this day that they had revealed they’d be going away on a trip of indeterminate length. Without her. Milo looked up at Gemma and cocked his head to the side. She patted her shoulder, the signal that it was okay for him to climb up and sit. Deftly, he swung up her torso and rested. Most times he would wrap only his tail around her neck, but today was different. He hugged her whole head with every limb he had.




“Gemma,” said her Mom. “Come and take a walk with me to the waterfall. I have something to tell you.”

2. Crooked
Fifteen years later, Gemma was standing at the helm of the the Mystic Reed. The sun lit up a bright blue mid-day sky. The saltwater sprayed her glasses with every dip of the bow. After years of sailing the open ocean, she found it refreshing. Milo, being a land mammal in both nature and disposition, found it annoying. He had resigned himself to the squawks of seagulls, the smell of barnacles, and the fact that every single thing on their boat was constantly wet. But, the saltwater stung his nostrils, and that ruffled him the wrong way. He had no choice, though, on such an important mission, but to brave the onslaught from atop Gemma’s shoulder and help with their search.




Gemma peered forward over the right side of the boat, which is called the starboard, as her uncle had taught her soon after her parents left. Then she peered over the left side of the boat, which is called the port. She always remembered which was which by reminding herself that ‘left’ and ‘port’ have the exact same number of letters. ‘Starboard’ and ‘right’ have an extraordinarily different number of letters, and therefore were not a part of her memorizing technique.




“I don’t see anything, Milo,” she said with a frown, wiping her glasses clean. They were speckled with saltwater again by the time she spoke again.




“That sea merchant told us the Forgotten Island would be right here!” she exclaimed.




Milo wrapped his tail around her neck and slid it down to point to the dark blue compass still hanging around her neck, slightly rusted, but otherwise intact. She opened up the cover and tapped the glass. There was a jagged silver needle laying lifeless inside, just as it always did.




Gemma looked down and sighed. “You know that thing doesn’t work. It can’t tell East from West or up from down. I need to remember exactly what that merchant said.” She began to mumble. “Across the Mossy Channel, due south of Heart Mountain, three days onward… oh what’s the use!”




Milo leapt onto the steering wheel as Gemma walked back to the stern of the boat and looked out across the water. “It’s called the Forgotten Island for a reason. It’s lost to the world!”




Her hand instinctively gripped the railing as the boat shook and shimmied. It slowed to a stop within seconds. She spun her head around to see Milo with his hands and tail in the air. This was often his pose when he wanted to make it clear that what had happened was not his fault. It was almost just as often the case that it was.




Gemma looked over the side rail again and saw a dark patch of land that hadn’t been there at last glance. It was a small oval island. They had run aground.




Milo hopped down from the steering wheel and swung over the side of the boat. Gemma’s feet found the wooden rungs on the Jacob’s ladder and stepped down to the thin shoreline.

She bent and grabbed a handful of sand. It was blue. A deep blue. And dark green as well. Mixed together, it was the exact color of the ocean.




“Remarkable,” she said, looking around. “This must be the Forgotten Island, Milo.”




Less impressed, Milo grabbed a fallen coconut from the ground and started pounding it on a nearby stone. The coconut tree it came from was one of only three trees on the island. The second was a slightly larger coconut tree with equal or better quality and sized coconuts. The third was significantly smaller than the first two, did not grow any coconuts, and was not a coconut tree. Apart from the trees, Gemma spotted a simple hut, with a frond-thatched roof, covered on all sides by vines. Next to it was the entrance to a small cave, handmade from brown stones.




Milo struck a victorious blow, splitting the coconut in two. He drank the water inside greedily then offered Gemma the other half as a snack.




“Thanks anyway, Milo,” she said. “I’d rather go check out that hut.”




Gemma couldn’t help staring into the dark mouth of the cave as she pushed in the hut’s door. It dislodged from the frame in a sloppy commotion and fell to the floor.




“Sorry…” Gemma said to no one at all as they stepped on top and entered. She had decided long ago that manners are manners whether someone is there to see them or not.

Milo finished the coconut meat and threw his shell onto the hut floor. He had decided long ago that he was a lemur and, therefore, manners did not apply.




Gemma spotted two windows and tore down the faded green vines covering them. The sunlight burst in to reveal a metal pot, suspended over a compact fire pit. She bent down and held her hands close to the wooden embers.




“It’s still warm,” she said with a suspicious tone. “Someone was here recently.” They looked around to confirm that despite the discovery, they were alone inside the hut. Milo picked his coconut shell up again and placed it on top of his head, just to be safe. Behind the pit there was a small circular table with a dusty chair pulled out. It looked to Gemma as though the seat had been dusted off by a large hand. A quick lap around the room uncovered an empty tin box and a set of clay bowls, but nothing more exciting. Gemma walked to the nearest window and stared out.




“Should’ve known that sea merchant was a liar. There’s nothing valuable here. We got hornswoggled, Milo.”




Milo looked up at her indignantly.




“Okay,” she conceded, “I got hornswoggled.”




Three weeks earlier Gemma sat at a lonely table in the shadows of Starlight Tavern, with Milo by her side. She didn’t enjoy the loud bard music or unruly patrons, but it was the best place in Harbortown to conduct the shady administrative business that came along with treasure hunting. That is to say, it was the only place that allowed the kind of people she needed to meet. Across from her sat one of those very people, known to her only as the sea merchant. He was a handsome mustachioed man with a tricorn hat, and at that moment, he had her rapt attention.




“It’s up to you,” he said with a smile and a sip of his drink. He had a smooth way of talking that made even the saltiest words come out sweet. Gemma didn’t trust him one bit. She took his words with a grain of regular-colored sand, but she was listening.




Milo stared at the merchant with the fierce protective glare that only a true friend possesses. Unbeknownst to Gemma, it had been two minute since he last blinked.




“And how do I know I can trust you?” she asked with an eyebrow raised.




The sea merchant laughed. “You don’t, friend.”




Gemma studied his smile. The lines next to his eyes. The piece of corn stuck to his teeth that, had he been a true friend, she would have mentioned to him as a courtesy.




“The price. It’s a bit steep,” she replied.




“That it is,” said the sea merchant, taking another sip. “But, this is no ordinary bounty. Through great peril I came to find it. It’s not everyday someone offers you ‘the most greatest treasure in the world’.”




Gemma’s face twisted.




“‘The most greatest treasure in the world?’ I’ve heard those words before…”




The sea merchant slammed his drink down.




“Aye, many have heard of it. None have found it.” He leaned in closer. “But I know the way.”




Gemma gave a coy smirk. “If you know the way then why don’t you go get it yourself. Surely it’s worth more than you’re asking.”




“’Tis not in the stars for me, friend. No, I’ll just stay here, safe and sound.” He reached out an open palm. “And count my coins.”




She sighed. It was the best lead she had gotten in months and, despite her concerns, she couldn’t turn it down. Besides, she was desperate for adventure, and if what the merchant said was even half true, it would be the stuff of legends.




Gemma looked to Milo and gave a nod. Without breaking his stare, Milo used his tail to lift up a pouch of coins and drop it on the table. Milo was the only lemur Gemma had ever met who had a prehensile tail, capable of gripping things, and it never ceased to amaze her. The sea merchant snatched the pouch up before the sound even hit Gemma’s ears. He took off his hat, leaned in close to cover the sides of their faces from a busy tavern, and whispered the instructions. The first rivers and channels and landmarks he mentioned were familiar, but the rest were completely foreign to her. She listened more carefully than she ever had before, repeating the words back to herself.




When he was finished, Gemma turned to Milo and gave another quick nod.




“Well, I guess that all we need to know,” she said, turning back to the sea merchant. “Thanks for…”




But the sea merchant was nowhere to be seen. Only his hat remained. Gemma and Milo were genuinely impressed by the mystique of it for a few seconds. Until they heard, “You’re welcome,” from underneath the table. The sea merchant’s hand reached up and grabbed the hat, since it was a high-quality hat, and not the kind you would leave behind for the sake of mystique.




Back inside the hut, Gemma looked out the window and sighed.




“I guess there were some red flags,” she said. Her eyes settled on the rock cave outside.




“Come on, Milo. We might as well check every nook and cranny,” she said with a shrug.




Milo squeaked as they stomped over the fallen door.




“A cranny. It’s basically the same thing as a nook,” she responded.




As Gemma and Milo walked inside the cave they carried some of the island’s blue sand with them. The entrance sloped down on a path of dark brown dirt that went on longer than either of them expected. When they reached the interior, the mid-day sun was almost completely blocked. Gemma felt around the cold walls and found a sconce holding a torch.




“Milo, flint me,” she said.




Milo reached inside the small pouch at his side and pulled out a flint stone, used for sparking flames. Swiftly, he tossed it past her open hand and hit her in the forehead. They had gotten good at starting cozy fires, but hadn’t yet perfected the handoff. In a dark cave and without any practice throws, they had almost no chance.




Gemma lit the torch and uncovered a cave of deep red stone. The flame created shadows that danced over the nooks in the side of the cave. They danced over crannies as well which, it’s worth noting, are actually an entirely different thing than nooks. What drew both of their attention, as soon as they saw it, was a wooden chest in the center. As they walked forward, its gold trim and lock shimmered in the light.




With each approaching step, Gemma noticed a peculiar thing start to happen. From around her neck, the compass began to shake. She stopped to raise it over her head and open the top. The jagged silver needle was vibrating loudly. Testing a theory, she took a step forward and the rattle increased until it filled the room.




“It’s… it’s never done this before,” she said. Milo looked up at her with wide yellow eyes. “Why would it shake now? It doesn’t even work.” Gemma carefully opened up the glass cover and grasped the needle to stop the shaking. “It’s almost like it’s not a compass at all…” She lifted her hand up and, to her surprise, removed the needle with ease.




Milo scuttled over to the lock and examined it. Excitedly, he jumped up and down. Gemma felt as though she understood what he meant. Through years of being best friends, they had developed their own kind of language, and she was rarely wrong.




“You want me to bake you a muffin, Milo?” Rarely wrong, but sometimes.




Milo scoffed and pointed at the lock.




“Ohhhh, use the needle on the lock,” she said. “Well, it looked a whole lot like your muffin dance.”




Gemma bent down and lined the needle up to the keyhole to find it was roughly the same size. With the torch in one hand, flickering wildly around the cave, she pressed the twisted needle into the lock.




“Here goes something,” she whispered.




Slowly, she turned the needle until she felt a click. The top to the chest popped open with ease. Gemma tapped her shoulder and Milo climbed up to see. She raised the torch and stared down. Inside, she saw her own face and Milo’s, distorted by a blanket of ripples. It was water. Dark ancient, water. And in the center, floating with a calmness, was a tiny boat.




Gemma had less than a moment to study it before she heard a familiar sound. One she had not heard for many years. It was the jingle of her old favorite bell.




“Oh, Bramblerot,” she said.

3. Freed
Somewhere inside the cave, the jingle came again. Gemma turned to see a shadowy four-legged figure growing larger. The steps were slow and deliberate. Each one was punctuated by the dragging roll of a bell along the dirt floor, swaying gracefully from a ribbon. When he came into to the light, Gemma cringed. His face had never left her, never lost its sharpness in her dreams. Milo silently slunk behind the chest, out of sight, and Gemma was thankful at least for that. She couldn’t stand the thought of him being the appetizer to a Gemma-sized main course. With nothing to lose and no better ideas in her petrified mind, she spoke.



“Hi there,” she pushed out. “I… I like your ribbon. I used to have one just like it.”



The jaguar paused to rest on his back legs and stare. Examining her face, his slim eyes opened a touch. Gemma smiled nervously. It was then, no sooner or later than Gemma’s teeth cleared her lips, that the jaguar attacked.



As he sprung towards her, he let out a growl more spine-shaking than Gemma had ever heard. They say that the fervor of a domesticated pet or long-caged beast is nothing when compared to the fierceness of a creature in the wild. Had you asked Gemma in that moment, she would certainly have agreed, and even more certainly would have wanted to discuss at a time when she was not the target of a jaguar pounce.



As luck would have it, the jaguar would never reach her. Just inches from Gemma’s face, which was scrunched up and bracing for impact, the jaguar was stopped. Sneaking in the shadows of the cave, Milo had made it to the other side just in time to reach out and grab the jaguar’s tail. But, a fuzzy tail is tough to hold onto, even for an experienced tail-grabber like Milo, and his grip slid all the way down to the dangling bell. The purple ribbon stretched and strained from the tension. Gemma grabbed the small ship from inside the chest and ducked away towards Milo, just as the bell and ribbon snapped off of the jaguar’s tail. The bell fell to the dusty ground with a jingle, but Milo clutched the ribbon in his hand. The jaguar’s momentum caused him to fly forward and slam into the open lid of the chest, then down into the water with a splash. Gemma looked back briefly to see the lid fall down over his head.



They rushed out onto the miniature beach and headed straight for the Mystic Reed. Gemma looked down at Milo and got the nod she needed. She handed him the tiny ship, then picked Milo up and swung him over the boat’s rail. This move had been mastered well beyond the flint toss, as hasty escapes were commonplace for a pair of treasure hunters like them. Milo instinctively let out the sail for the reverse wind to push them off the shore. Gemma took two steps up the Jacob’s ladder and held on as the boat cleared the shallows.



The jaguar raced out of the cave, sopping wet, straight towards them, but came to a stop at the frothy shoreline. All he could do was sit on the blue sand and snarl and growl at the receding boat. Now that Gemma and Milo were both safely on board and protected by the waves between them, they found the jaguar slightly less intimidating than moments ago. Milo handed Gemma her purple ribbon, then steered the boat into the open ocean. Gemma tied the ribbon back into her hair and shouted off the stern in the back of the boat.



“Sorry we snagged your tail and shot you into a chest of water! And sorry for taking the tiny ship you were guarding! And…” Gemma turned back to Milo. “This is weirdest apology I’ve ever given.” Milo nodded and banked the wheel to his left. “We’re just sorry!” finished Gemma.



She took over command of the wheel and set off in the direction where the sky looked clearest. The Forgotten Island faded from view as swiftly as it had appeared, almost like magic. Milo sprawled out on the deck with the tiny ship and began examining it. He tapped it on the side, wiggled the rudder in back, and held it up from every angle.



“Find anything interesting?” Gemma called out.



Milo shook his head with a sigh and placed the ship onto the wooden deck. Then, a playful smirk crept up as he decided to spin it around like a dreidel.



“I’d hardly call that ‘the most greatest treasure in the world’! There must be more to it,” she continued to herself. “‘Most greatest treasure.’ Who talks like that? It’s something a kid would say.”



The glint from the bow of another boat stole her attention. Somehow, it had come within four lengths of the Mystic Reed without her noticing, and was now pulling alongside them.



“We’ve got company Milo!” she shouted. But Milo’s attention had been stolen too, not by the life-sized boat pulling ever closer, but by the tiny ship in his hands. Spinning it had betrayed an exciting secret. Something hidden was rattling around inside.



The Mystic Reed slowed to a stop as the strange, unknown boat settled by its side. A six-foot-tall man with dark curly hair and a long nose stepped away from his helm towards Gemma.



“Ahoy!” he said over the railing of his old, wonky boat. It was filled with so many knick-knacks and trinkets that it looked like a giant had picked up a dozen different shops and shaken their contents on board.



“Ahoy,” Gemma said back.



“Pleasure to meet you. Might I ask your name and the name of this fine vessel?” said the man.



“My name is Gemma, and this is the Mystic Reed. My friend’s name is Milo but he’s a bit busy at the moment.”



Milo pulled off the crow’s nest on top of the tiny ship and peeked inside the hollow mast. His eyes grew two sizes when he spotted a scroll that had been rolled up and tucked away. Using his lemur fingers, he clawed at it, tongue sticking out in concentration.



“And you?” she asked back.



The man proudly stepped aside to show the full span of his boat.



“This here is the Dusty Rust Busket,” he said with a smile.



Gemma looked confused. “Do you mean Dusty Rust Bucket?”



“Bucket? This isn’t a bucket- it’s a boat!” he snapped back.



“I’m sorry,” said Gemma, “I just thought…”



Milo pulled the scroll from the ship and let out a sequel of delight. Finally taking notice of the stranger,  the Dusty Rust Busket, and his general surroundings, he hid it behind his back and joined Gemma.



“You thought wrong,” added the man, still stinging from the question.



“It won’t happen again, um…” Gemma replied with curiosity.



“Charles. My name is Charles Bucket. But you can call me Chuck,” he said with a grand bow.



Gemma tapped her shoulder and Milo hopped up. “Milo, I’d like you to meet Chuck Bucket of the Dusty Rust Busket.” As yet, it was the silliest sentence she had ever said aloud, but she still had many sentences and much silliness ahead of her.



Chuck Bucket gave a less exaggerated bow and half smile to Milo.



“Now that we’ve all been introduced, might we discuss the riddle in your lemur’s hand?” he asked.

4. Serpentine
Gemma hadn’t noticed. It wasn’t until Milo hiccuped at the question, as he sometimes does when he’s surprised, that she realized he was holding something behind his back. He shot her a sheepish stare, which is hard for a lemur to do. Slowly, he pulled out the thin scroll from behind his back.



“Where did you get that, Milo?” Gemma asked with surprise, but no hiccups.



“I believe it was from that little toy he was playing with over there,” interrupted Chuck, pointing to the tiny ship on the deck of the Mystic Reed.



Milo offered it up to Gemma. She grabbed it and shot him a stare. There was no room for secrets on a boat. That’s something that he Uncle Horace had taught her. The Mystic Reed was her boat, and she didn’t like the idea of a stranger knowing more about its goings-on than her.



“I haven’t had a chance to look at it yet, Captain Bucket,” she said, turning back to him. “I don’t know what makes you think it’s a riddle…” Gemma unrolled the scroll and scanned the parchment. She paused, then looked up again.



“Okay, fine, it’s a riddle.”



More curious than the hidden riddle was the way in which it was written. The beautiful black-ink calligraphy had a quality that she had seen only twice while sailing the Eight Seas. The first time was in a ledger, stolen off a royal ship, that she had won in a game of checkers. Milo lost it in a different game of checkers the same night. The second was on a spyglass telescope that Gemma’s uncle had shown her. “A gift from old friends,” he had said.

This writing was just as intricate and written with even more care.



“How did you know what was on here?” asked Gemma.



Chuck Bucket gave his biggest, kindness smile. “I know a riddle when I see one. I deal with them quite a bit in my travels.”



Gemma pondered this for a moment. She had known some treasure hunters that traded riddles late into the night on a long journey. They did it for entertainment, but also to test their wits. A few of the riddles were ancient and well-known. The kind of riddles that some children could answer proudly. But, sometimes a sailor would come from a distant land with a riddle that was yet untold. Gemma liked the idea that the world still held secret riddles waiting to be solved, and suspected that Captain Chuck Bucket had uncovered a great many in his work.



“So, let’s have it,” he added. He leaned in close and stuck his ear out towards her.



Gemma read the scroll aloud.



“In a small pond, I was a small fish.

Now is the time, to grant me my wish.”



She read it aloud a second time to be sure. Gemma and Milo looked at each other with blank stares.



“I don’t get it, Milo,” said Gemma. “Was there a fish in the ship?” Milo crossed his arms and shook his head. He was not a fish thief.



Captain Chuck Bucket sighed and stood up straight again. “I had hoped it might be more difficult. I do enjoy a difficult riddle.”



“You mean you know what the answer?” Gemma asked with surprise.

“Indeed I do,” he replied.



There was a great pause.



“So… will you tell us?!” spit it out Gemma.



Captain Bucket stroked his chin and thought for a moment. “I might,” he said. “I might.”



Milo lifted his finger in the air excitedly then hopped down to rummage below deck. He came scurrying back up on two legs holding a checkers board.



“No, Milo!” urged Gemma. “You are not playing him in checkers for it. You’ll end up losing the boat.”



Milo pouted and turned back around.



“He’s never won,” whispered Gemma to Captain Bucket. “And I don’t mean that as an exaggeration. I mean not a single time. And he played a chicken, twice.”



“Bad luck I’m sure,” said Captain Bucket sweetly. Then his eyes lit up, as if an idea had just struck him. “Why don’t we trade instead! You give me that elegant purple ribbon in your hair, and I’ll give you the answer. It will add nicely to my collection,” he said.



Gemma touched the ribbon in her hair. “My ribbon?” she questioned, undoing the knot and holding it in her hands. “I suppose. I just got it back, though.”



“Then you won’t miss it much.” Captain Bucket reached out and grabbed it from her hands, then secured it in his own, wavy hair.



He retreated to the steering wheel of the Dusty Rust Busket and waved Gemma farewell.



“Goodbye Gemma! A chance encounter I won’t soon forget!” he said, pulling away.



Milo arrived back and sat on the railing, looking out.



“Wait!” shouted Gemma. “What’s the answer to the riddle!”



Captain Bucket gave one last smile and cupped his hands to his mouth.



“Sometimes what we just need room to explore. That ship you found is looking for a bigger pond!” And with that, he spun The Dusty Rust Busket towards the horizon and sailed away.



Gemma stood watching for a moment longer.



“We make deals with some interesting people, Milo,” she said to a nod.



Milo picked up the tiny ship and handed it to Gemma. It was hardly the straightforward answer that Gemma had wanted, but it was still a step in the right direction. The tiny ship needed more room.



“It needs a bigger pond.” The pair peered over the edge of the boat into the water and watched low waves slap the hull. “It doesn’t get much bigger than that,” she said. It was the best, and only, idea that she had. Gemma took a deep breath, closed her eyes, and dropped the tiny ship over the edge of the Mystic Reed. “I sure hope it floats,” she added.



The ship plopped down below the surface, sending out ripples, then bobbed back up. A small cylinder in the back of the boat, that Milo had assumed was a miniature barrel, became electrified by the salt water ocean. It whirred and wizzed until a propellor protruded out of the end. It turned slowly at first, and then built up steam, until it was spinning so fast that the blades couldn’t be seen. With a gentle hum, the tiny ship sped off in a direction only it knew.



“Milo! That ship is getting away!” Gemma jumped back to the steering wheel. Using all of her might, she grabbed a peg on the wheel and pulled hard to spin the boat around. Milo wrapped his tail and hands around another one and pulled alongside her.



“That’s it!” she shouted.



The boat had turned almost all the way around by the time they were on course to follow. Milo climbed up the mast and used their spyglass telescope to spot the tiny ship. Whenever Gemma veered too far in one direction Milo would squeak and point to the starboard or port. The Mystic Reed had a great size advantage over the tiny ship that it was tailing, however a sailboat is at whim of the wind, and must, at times, take a more indirect route to get where it’s going. So, it was with both luck and skill that Gemma and her first mate, or ‘first primate’ as she liked to joke, caught up to the ship in time to see it find the lightning current.



Gemma had heard tales of a current of electric blue, so powerful and full of life that it lit up the surface of the sea, but she had never seen it. She didn’t truly believe anyone else had either. But as they approached the tiny ship, there was no denying that it was riding down the center of a glowing blue stream the very shape and color of lightning. The tiny ship zigged and zagged with the turns, and Gemma did her best to stay the course. She no longer needed Milo’s navigation, since the sea itself was showing her the way. The lighting pattern got slimmer and slimmer as the two vessels approached a sandy shore.



The tiny ship stopped dead just before the break of the waves on the shore. Gemma dropped anchor and watched from above as it let out a few bubbles and flipped over. The hull opened up just before the ship sank out of sight. In its place, it left a message in a bottle floating on the water, waiting to be opened.



5. Sandy
Gemma and Milo sat around a campfire on the shore at dusk. They had found nothing but dunes, which are small hills of sand, and desert, and Gemma decided it was best for them to stay near the Mystic Reed for the night. The biggest reason was that there was no way to tell where the tiny ship had led them. Nearest Gemma could figure, the Forbidden Island had been somewhere on the edge of the Azul Sea, and its waters were, by far, the most mysterious of the Eight Seas. Almost all of her treasure hunting was done in the Cascade Sea and the Sparkling Sea. Occasionally, she ventured to out the Mosaic Sea to island hop, but that was more for Milo than for riches. Gemma always found a reason to stop by Lemur Island while they were there, to Milo’s utter delight. The Azul Sea, though, had a reputation for legend and danger. There were even rumblings of fantastical creatures but, Gemma noted, never any evidence or firsthand accounts. Once they found whatever it was they were looking for, Gemma vowed to sail them straight back home to Harbortown. But first, they would need to decipher another riddle. This time it had come from a bottle.



Gemma held the empty bottle in her hand and read the clue on the piece of paper aloud once again.



“As the day rises, the cottontails run.

Follow their tracks by the light of the sun.”



The fire crackled as Gemma and Milo pondered the words.



“Cottontails. They must mean rabbits right?” Milo curled his tail into a tight ball and hopped around on all fours.



“Quit it Milo, this is serious business,” Gemma said with a laugh and a smile.



Milo grabbed a bundle of licorice and snapped off a piece that he felt he’d earned for his performance. Gemma had laid out some food around the campfire, that she got from the yellow knapsack that she always brought on expeditions. There was sourdough bread, jerky, apples, oranges, and a bundle of licorice that was getting smaller by the hour.



“Whatever we’re supposed to do next, it has to wait for morning. ‘By the light of the sun’ the riddle says.”



Gemma pulled out a deck of purple Giants and Goblins cards. They were a gift from her uncle soon after her parents sent her to stay with him. “They’re good for passing the time on the sea,” he would say. “Remember, the Giants might be stronger, but Goblins have the numbers and the smarts.” Her uncle had taught her all the best combinations and tricks. His shipmates taught her all the best ways to cheat. Cheating was as big of a part of the game as anything else; even more so when Milo was playing. They played game after game, until the stars were glowing as brightly as the lightning bugs nearby.



“I play a Stone Giant!” said Gemma triumphantly.



Milo looked at his deck with his tongue slightly sticking out of his mouth, a sign of his highest level of concentration. He gave a sly wheezing chuckle and laid down four Goblins, three that had weapons and one that was holding a lyre, a musical instrument. He raised his hands and shook them together triumphantly.



“Wait, a second, let me see your tail!” she demanded. Milo spun around but conveniently kept his tail hidden from view. But Gemma stood up and spotted the four clandestine cards he was gripping behind his back.



“I knew it!” she said. “You’re a Goblin thief!”



Milo looked back up at her with the widest, most innocent yellow eyes he could muster, until a smile swept over Gemma’s face involuntarily. Soon they were laughing.



“I don’t know why I bother playing with you,” she realized.



Milo stood up proudly and let out a series of serious and determined squeaks.



“I know, I know. You come from a long line of cheaters and it was your great grandlemur’s last wish that you carry on the tradition,” Gemma translated. It was, in fact, exactly what Milo was saying.



Gemma laid back onto a piece of driftwood and looked up at the moon, full in the sky. She tapped her side and Milo nodded to accept, snuggling in next to her.



“What do you think it is, Milo? What’s the ‘most greatest treasure in the world’?



Milo thought for a moment then hopped up with a smile. He pointed to his tail with both hands and squeaked. Gemma smirked and then laid back down dismissively.



“It is NOT a gold tail ringlet. Not everyone has a tail you know.”



Milo shrugged and laid back down. Gemma didn’t say it, but there was more than one occasion when she had truly, desperately wished she had a tail. It was hard to have a best friend with Milo’s tail talents. It was a constant reminder that her rear end was inferior in all but one way: sitting in chairs. Milo had a difficult time finding a place for his tail. If a genie gave her the chance to grow one she would have taken it. Although, it would have meant finding a genie with a very specific set of powers. And then it would mean a lot of explaining, being a human with a lemur-sized tail for the rest of her life. These were the thoughts that carried Gemma off to sleep that night: a tail-obsessed genie, and a lifetime of arguments with pants-makers.



It wasn’t the sun or Milo’s snoring that woke Gemma up, but the low trampling rumble of a stampede. The vibrations rocked her awake and caused her eyes to open through heavy blinks. A cloud of sand was approaching their camp.



“Wake up, Milo! It’s… it’s a… I don’t know what it is!” Gemma yelled.



Milo sat upright and rubbed his eyes. A piece of licorice still hung from his lips as he looked around. He was just in time to see a blur of ears and feet and tails storming into the center of their campsite. They were moving in a speedy, rigid formation. A hard and sharp turn towards the desert led them straight over the sand dunes, out of sight. There was no mistaking it, these were cottontail rabbits, just as Gemma had expected. But she had not expected what they found in the rabbits’ wake. Milo stuffed the dangling licorice into his mouth as they stared at the bare ground, with not a speck of food left.

6. Spiced
“After them!” yelled Gemma. The pack of cottontail rabbits had cleared the beach and hurried into the desert. Milo grabbed the sack off the sandy shore and handed it to Gemma. They followed after the rabbits, kicking up swirls of sand like a tornado in a field of flowers.



Running with all the speed they could muster, Gemma and Milo kept up for the better part of an hour. Under the blistering sun, it was getting harder and harder to keep up their pace. The rabbits, it seemed, were a bit more adept than them at desert sprints, whether they wanted to admit it or not. As the sun hit the middle of the sky, the chase brought them all to a small desert oasis, with palm trees, green plants, and a small fresh water pond.



“Am I seeing things, Milo?” asked Gemma, out of breath and so hot that her hair seemed to be sweating. Milo’s wide eyes and drooling grin told her that she wasn’t. “No time to stop,” she panted, “We need to catch those rabbits.” Milo let out a disappointed squeak, but pressed on.



The rabbits tore through the oasis without a second thought and continued onto large dunes. When Gemma and Milo took the same path and came to the top of a dune, the rabbits were gone. All they saw were row upon row of sand dunes.



“They could’ve gone anywhere,” said Gemma. “Those dunes make it impossible to see!”



Milo raised his finger to make a point and then flopped back on to the sand.



“Milo! Are you okay?” she asked. Milo didn’t answer.



“Do you want to go to the oasis?” she asked. Milo didn’t move.



“Do you want me to carry you to the oasis?” she asked. Milo lifted his head and nodded with a smile.



Gemma picked him up and they made their way back down the dune, straight towards the oasis pond. The shade from the palm trees gave them immediate relief from the sun overhead as they laid down by the pond next to each other. There were a dozen bushes and patches of uneven grass around the rim of the water. It felt cool and soft beneath their heads. It was the first moment of rest they’d had since waking up, and it felt better than good and gooder than great to not be running.



“How are we going to catch those rabbits?” Gemma asked. Instead of answering, Milo rolled over into the pond and slurped up as much water as he could.



“Yeah, I guess we can figure it out tomorrow,” she said. But, Milo didn’t hear her, because he was busy doing the backstroke.



That night, under a sky filled with stars, they sat around a new fire and got ready for sleep. The water had rejuvenated them, but their food supply was dwindling, after the rambunctious rabbits had robbed them. This night’s feast was smaller than the last, but they were happy to have it. As Milo chewed on a licorice stick, Gemma laid her head on a particularly comfortable patch of onion grass.



“So, what do you really think the most greatest treasure in the world will be?” she asked him.



Milo hopped up and twirled his fingers around his tail from top to bottom with a series of squeaks.



“It is not a diamond tail spiral, Milo. Not everything has to do with your tail!” she replied.



Milo chuckled to himself and laid down next to her. They stared up at the night sky and got lost in the sparkling patterns above them.



“They’re beautiful, aren’t they?” she said. Milo nodded happily. They remind me of the night before my parents left. My mom took me to a waterfall and…” Gemma was interrupted by Milo’s snoring. She glanced over and saw him, fast asleep. “Goodnight, Milo,” she finished.



The next morning, they were woken again by the herd of cottontails. Exhausted from a day of pursuit, Gemma and Milo had slept all the way through to mid-day. The rabbits headed straight through the oasis, as they had before. By the time Gemma opened her eyes and realized it, it was too late. Gemma had left their food out again, and the rabbits were devouring it as they passed.



“No! Shoo! Get outta here!” she yelled, sitting up and reaching towards them. They were gone before she got to her feet.



Gemma grabbed her bag and ran to the top of the dune. Just like before, the rabbits were gone. More gone even. It had taken Gemma longer to climb the dune, in her sleepy state. Milo, had, impressively, not even woken up.



“They’re gone again,” she said, as Milo rubbed his eyes open. “And they took the food we left out.” Milo scrambled to the backpack and crawled inside to look through. He came back out with a frown.



“I know,” she said. “All we have left is some bread, four licorice sticks, a coconut, and those spices that make you…” Gemma stopped.



“Milo, I think I have an idea. Tomorrow, when they come back. You and I are going to be ready,” she said with a grin. Milo grinned too, not because he knew the plan but because he liked when Gemma grinned.



Under the moonlight on the third night, Gemma and Milo laid down to sleep.



“We’ll need to rest up if my plan is going to work,” she said, fixing her pillow of onion grass.



Milo snuggled up to a soft bush and got cozy.



“So, one last try. What do you think the ‘most greatest treasure in the world’ is?”



Milo hopped up even more excited than before. He swung his tail around like a lasso, hopped on both feet, pointed to the sky, then back at his tail, wrapped it around his leg, then danced a jig.



“Milo! That’s… actually, okay that would be pretty amazing.”



Milo laid down and fell asleep with a smile on his face.



When mid-day came, Gemma and Milo had packed their bag, drank lots of water, and were waiting in the center of the oasis. Bits and chunks of bread were spread out on the ground in front of them.



The cottontail rabbits came over the horizon and headed right for their camp.



“Here we go, Milo. I hope this works.”



The rabbits ran over their camp just as they had each day before. And they ate all the food, just as they had the each day before. When they headed up the dune, with Gemma and Milo chasing them, there was not a speck of bread left.



At the top of the dune, Gemma looked around and, once again, saw only sand. Milo looked to her, but she held up her hand. They stood, waiting. Nothing happened.



“Come on… come on…” she whispered.



And that’s when a puff of sand shot up on the other side of a dune to their left. And then another.



“There!” she said, pointing. They ran off in the direction of the sand puffs. As they came to the top of the next dune, they looked around again. Another puff from a different dune.



“It’s working!” yelled Gemma. The spices on that bread are making them sneeze, just like you, Milo!”



Gemma and Milo ran up and down dunes all afternoon, never losing track of the rabbits and their sandy sneezes. Then, to their surprise, the puffs of sand stopped moving. They all came from the same place, on the other side of a tall dune. When Gemma and Milo reached the top, they looked down over a group of sleeping, sneezing, cottontail rabbits, curled up together. They were lying at the foot of a dirt path that stretched through a few trees, then on into a deep, dark forest.

7. Starry
Young Gemma and her mom had stopped at the foot of a waterfall. The moonlight hit the water and made it glow a silvery blue as it rolled over the rocks and down to the stream below. Gemma thought of how this might be last time that she saw the night sky over the rainforest with her mom. It made her love the flickering stars even more. And for a reason she couldn’t completely understand, it made her angry at each and every one. She stood across the stream from her mother and looked up. Both of her parents were taller than her but her mother was not nearly as out of reach as her father. Gemma imagined that she was only a few years of eating vegetables away from drawing even.



“Gemma, do you know why your father and I are explorers?” asked her mom.



The answer was so simple to Gemma that she was almost confused. “It’s fun.”



“That’s part of it,” said Gemma’s mom with a smile. “But far from all of it.”



Her mom leaned down close to the stream and reached in with both hands. She scooped up an impressive amount of water. A few more years of drinking milk and Gemma’s hands would be just as large, she was sure.



“What do you see in my hands, Gemma?” she asked.



Gemma was confused again. These were hardly questions worthy of a waterfall chat.



“It’s water,” she said confidently.



Gemma’s mom spread her fingers and let the water slip down like the waterfall. A layer of mud covered her hands.



“And now?”



“That’s mud,” answered Gemma.



Gemma’s mom sifted through the mud, until glimmers of gold rose to the surface.



“And now?”



Gemma’s eyes sparkled as she looked at the precious metal in her mom’s hand.



“You see. There is wonder all us around us,” explained her mother. She pointed to the water. “In the sea.” She slapped the mud into Gemma’s hands, making her laugh. “In the earth.”

Gemma’s mom looked up.



“And in the sky!” interrupted Gemma.



“That’s right,” said her mom.



Gemma looked up. Her eyes still sparkling, until she remembered. “But, why do you have to go?” she asked. She could feel the tears coming whether she wanted them or not.



Then it was her mom’s turn to get serious.



“Since the beginning, it has been the job of explorers to find the wonders of this world. And to keep them safe,” she explained.



“And to keep them secret?” asked Gemma.



“Precisely!” replied her mom. “We are a group. We work together to protect these wonders. But there is one of us who would take them. Who would use them for their own gain.”



Gemma’s face scrunched up in anger. She understood that it was wrong for someone to take things that weren’t theirs. But more than that, she understood that her mother and father were leaving because of whoever this person was.



“Who is it??” she cried. “I’ll stop them!”



Gemma’s mom reached out and grabbed her hand with a smile. “I have no doubt you would. But it is a job for your father and I. There are things you still don’t know.”



“Like what?” demanded Gemma. There were few things that Gemma disliked more than not knowing things that she wanted to know. It ranked just below not having things that she wanted to have.



“There is a key,” her mom relented.



“Like a key to open something?” asked Gemma.



“Yes,” answered her mom. “Although we don’t know what it looks like. It was here, underground, and they came for it.”



It was a lot for Gemma to understand. “They came to the jungle?”



“Yes. But, don’t worry, they have no interest in us, they were just looking for the key.”



“And they took it?” asked Gemma.



“It seems that the key is still hidden, but we don’t know where. We must find it before anyone else does, Gemma.”



“Why?” asked Gemma. “What is it?”



Gemma’s mom found her favorite constellation in the sky and let out a sigh.



“The stuff of dreams, Gemma. The stuff of dreams.”

 8. Wooded
The cottontail rabbits were fast asleep as Gemma and Milo snuck by. There was no use in waking them. The path lay ahead, and besides, the rabbits were too good at stealing food to give them another chance at the knapsack. At first, the path was covered in a tan dirt and surrounded by low bushes with just a few leaves. As the day turned to dusk, the path became dark, surrounded by trees. It wasn’t long before they passed through an archway of green branches, made many years before. Gemma and Milo stepped forward into the deep woods. They were entering what was known to the ancestors of old as the Forrest of Misfortune.



“I have a good feeling about this place, Milo,” said Gemma.



It’s important to remember that she did not know that this was the forrest’s name.



As dusk continued into night, Gemma and Milo found the path more and more overgrown with branches. A strange orange bird looked down on them from a tall tree. Milo looked up and stared at it suspiciously. He kept his eyes on it as he walked.



“It’s just a bird, Milo,” said Gemma, looking back. “Just because these plants and animals are new to us doesn’t make them bad.”



Gemma pushed ahead. The moment she turned her back, the bird glared at Milo and stuck out its tongue. Before Milo could make a fuss, Gemma urged him on.



“Come on, we’ve got to find something soon before it gets too dark.”



Milo rushed to catch up, and ran right into Gemma from behind. She had stopped dead at a wall of multi-colored leaves. Slowly, she parted them to see that the path went into a circular clearing, and stopped at a lonely tree in the center. This was no ordinary tree, however. It was large. And not large in the way that the largest apple is when surrounded by smaller apples. It was large in the way that a watermelon is when surrounded by grapes. There was grass all around it and the roots were covered with moss and, for some reason, it had an orange glow. It was the most impressive tree that Gemma had ever seen.



“I think this is what we were supposed to find, Milo,” said Gemma, never breaking her stare. Milo nodded.



It was so impressive in fact, that Gemma didn’t notice the two doors at its base until she was a few feet away. They were made from a different wood than the tree itself. One was painted blue, and the other was painted not blue. It is not remembered what color the second door was painted, so it cannot be said for sure what it was, except that it was not blue. Gemma approached the blue door. There was no one else around and there were no signs to be read.



“I guess we should just try both of them,” guessed Gemma.



But before her hand could turn the brass knob, a small window opened up above their heads. It was impossible to see it until it opened since it was made form the same wood as the tree, and its seams were seamless.



“I wouldn’t do that,” said a voice from the window. A small elderly woman with pink pigtails poked her head out from above and peered down.



Gemma pulled her hand back and stood up straight.



“Oh, um, why is that?” she asked.



“Because only one of those doors will lead you up to me. The other will suck you inside and spit you out on the other side of the world,” said the woman.



Milo laughed dismissively and slapped his leg.



“Don’t believe me?” said the woman. “Give it a try, then. I should mention that the other side of the world is smack dab in the middle of the Durg Sea.”



Milo laughed a little softer. Then not at all.



“Why would someone design a tree like that?!” protested Gemma.



The elderly woman cocked her head. The pigtails on her head bobbed.



“You’re looking for something extraordinary, my dear,” she said. “Extraordinary is not easy.”



Gemma and Milo looked at each other excitedly.



“You know what we’re looking for?” she asked the woman with pink pigtails. “All we know is that it’s the most greatest treasure in the world.”



The woman chuckled. “I’ll never understand why they started calling it that. It’s something a child would say.”



The woman started down at them, then retreated back into the tree and shut the window abruptly.



Gemma was startled. “But… hey!” she shouted.



The woman stuck her head out again and looked down. “Ah, you two… yes, what is it?”



Gemma pleaded with her. “Excuse me, miss…”



“My name is Willow,” she responded.



“What a beautiful name, were you named after this tree?” Gemma asked with a smile slightly too big for her mouth.



“How should I know?” said Willow with a scoff. “I was a baby at the time.”



“Right… well, I’m Gemma and this is Milo,” said Gemma awkwardly.



Willow peeked her head out further and looked down on them.



“Gemma, what an unusual name. Were you named after a rock?” Willow said, with no smile at all. Gemma just ignored the question, as well as Milo giggling at it.



“Willow, we have no idea which door to open. Can you at least give us a hint?” Gemma asked.



“A hint??” shouted Willow. “The nerve! The gall! The outright… the bull-frogginess of it!”



Gemma slouched down. “I’m sorry… I didn’t mean to offend.”



Willow slammed the window making it disappear into the tree once again. They sat staring up at it for a minute. Gemma was about ready to give up when it opened again. Willow leaned out and addressed them, this time holding a piece of paper.



“As it just so happens, I do have a hint,” she said proudly. “I wrote it down years ago but no one’s ever asked for it. No one’s ever made it this far at all, actually. Anyone could’ve made the same mistake!” she added.



“Certainly,” responded Gemma kindly.



“Quite,” said Willow. She cleared her throat and read the paper aloud. “Don’t count on smell or feel or sight. The doors will tell you which is right.”



Gemma quintet her eyes and thought hard. After a great deal of pondering she was sure of only one thing.



“I need to hear it again,” she said.



“You wish to hear it again,” said Willow. “You need to pick the right door or you’ll be kraken food in the Durg Sea.” Willow shut the window one final time.

9. Nervy
“You gotta be kidding!” expelled Gemma, throwing her hands into the air. Milo threw his hands up as high as they could go in support. “Why is everything a riddle?” Milo shook his head furiously in support even more. “Maybe we should just climb up the tree and crawl in the window instead. I wonder how Willow’d feel about THAT!” Milo paused. As a lemur, he was no stranger to climbing trees. However, this tree had no branches within reach and was wider than all the trees he’d ever climbed added up and bunched together like twigs. He could not support this.



Gemma settled down in her usual way. She sighed, then stomped, then huffed, then sighed and stomped again. If was after the second stomp that she decided to get back down to business. She paced around as she recited what she could remember of the riddle.



“She said, that the doors will tell us which is right.” Gemma recalled, turning to the forest. “But we shouldn’t use sight or smell or feel. She’s talking about using our senses. And since there are five senses, that only leaves two.” Gemma smiled and snapped her fingers. “It means we need to use either taste or sound to find the right door! And I think we both know which one she means… sound!”



Gemma turned back to find Milo frozen, leaning towards the nearest door with his tongue sticking out, ready to lick. He had guessed taste. Milo slowly pulled his tongue back into his mouth, straightened up and gave an apologetic grin.



Gemma whispered as kindly as she could. “You need to stop licking things, Milo. How many times have I told you?”



Milo answered by raising four fingers, but, in fact, the right answer was five. To date, Milo had been caught licking a beehive, wet paint, a sea slug, and a particularly delicious looking bar of pink soap. The door made five, but given the circumstances, it is understandable that Milo did not think to count this instance, so soon after retracting his tongue.



Gemma joined him by the tree. “It’s got to be sound. We need to listen to hear what’s inside. You take this door and I’ll take the other.” They positioned themselves, each with an ear against a door. “Hear anything?” Gemma asked.



Milo heard nothing and shook his head. Gemma strained to hear a noise, any noise at all, inside. But there was none. She sighed, and was getting ready to stomp and huff, until something hit her.



“Wait just a second. Willow said that one of these doors has stairs behind it, and the other is a hole that will suck us up and spit us out on the other side of the world.” Milo shuddered at the reminder. Gemma reached down to the forest floor and brushed aside some brown and red leaves. She sifted through a group of rocks until she found two that were the size she was looking for. She handed one to a confused Milo and took her place back on the second door.



“Okay, Milo. We need to knock on the doors and listen for an echo.” Milo nodded and pressed his ear against the door again. He knocked three times on the door and listened. He knocked three more times. He knocked two more times. Then he knocked five times to a beat. “Milo!” Milo stopped and smiled at her.



“Did you hear an echo?” Milo nodded and tossed the rock aside, going over to Gemma at her door.



“That means there should be no echo from this door.” Gemma knocked three times loudly, and both she and Milo listened. They heard no echo at all. Gemma gave one more hard knock. “Nothing. There must be stairs behind this one! If it was empty space then it would echo like yours did.”



Gemma put her hand on the brass knob and paused. Milo held her leg tight and closed his eyes. If she was right then their journey would continue. And if she was wrong, then it would end right now, at the bottom of the Durg Sea.



Her hand was steady as she turned the knob.



But she never got a chance to push.



The door flew open and pulled her hand with it.



Milo opened his eyes and saw Willow, holding a paintbrush and staring up at Gemma.



“Most people don’t use rocks to knock on front doors,” said Willow.

 10. Towering
Willow led Gemma and Milo up to her home, a few flights up inside the enormous tree. The staircase ended on a landing with furniture, among which were two comfortable chairs, a bookcase, and a bright slanted desk built into the side of the tree. Just to its right, Willow pushed on the wall until two slats popped and swung out. Gemma decided that the window was just as mysterious from the inside, and looked like any other spot on the wall until it was opened. She couldn’t imagine how skilled of a carpenter had made such a feat.



Willow sat down at the desk with an orange chair and dipped the paintbrush into a mug of water. Colors flowed from the tip and swirled in a storm of purples and yellows. Gemma noticed a dozen dips in the desk, as if a ball had been repeatedly pressed into it as it was made. Each one was filled with a different color paint. Too many colors for just one rainbow, Gemma thought. She took a moment to look around and realized that most of the wall was covered with beautiful paintings overlapping each other. There were mountains and rivers and creatures that Gemma had never seen before. Her eyes fixated on a majestic sea monster with two enormous fins and a long neck.



“These paintings are wonderful! Where do you find your ideas?” asked Gemma.



“Willow spun her chair around and stared at Gemma with narrow eyes. She studied her for just a moment, but long enough for Gemma to feel shy.



“Dreams,” replied Willow. “I draw my dreams.” In a flash, she spun back with her paintbrush in hand. She hovered between a puddle of sky blue paint and rose red. “I used to draw… other things… but now I just draw my dreams.”



“I wish I could paint,” said Gemma, sadly. In all her years at sea learning about the world, she had never gotten the hang of drawing and painting. She had decided long ago that it was for other people to be good at, not her.



Willow stood up without a sound and walked over to face Gemma. She was at least a loaf of bread shorter, but her stare made Gemma feel small.



“No use wishing for things you can have. Painting is just a way of talking with your hands,” said Willow. The paintbrush dropped into Gemma’s hands. “Find your voice, dear girl.”



Willow hurried back over to her table and hopped back onto her chair. Reaching inside her jacket pocket, she pulled out another brush and dipped it firmly into the sky blue paint puddle.



“Now enough nonsense. I have work to do. it’s time for you both to get moving,” said Willow.



Gemma patted her shoulder and Milo hopped up. “Moving? But, you haven’t told us anything.” Gemma squeezed the brush in her hand. “About where we’re supposed to go I mean…”



Willow laughed. “Where else would you go but the top?” she asked. With brush in hand, Willow pointed to a section of clear wood on the wall to her right. Besides the window, it was one of the only places on the tree without paintings. To Gemma, it most resembled the shape of a door. And, my Dear Friend, as you well know, our first guesses are usually the best ones we have. Still unsure of herself, Gemma walked over and pushed against the wood, the same way that Willow had on the window. With the ease of wind on dry leaves, a door slid open to reveal another staircase. Gemma climbed onto the first step then looked back at Willow. She was at her desk, feverishly painting. Gemma squeezed her gift tightly again, then placed it into her backpack.



“Thank you,” said Gemma. Willow didn’t say another word, nor did she stop what she was doing, for a dream had come back to her and such fleeting things cannot be put aside for pleasantries.



Gemma and Milo ascended only a few steps before the door shut behind them. The design was so perfect that not a speck of light from Willow’s home made it to the stairs. They climbed in darkness from there on out. It wasn’t long before Gemma figured out the way of the staircase. It was winding, taking them up and up in what seemed like a never-ending spiral. They climbed for hours, taking only a few breaks to eat a small licorice snack or catch their breath. Milo didn’t complain, even though each step for a human equals two steps for a lemur.



“This… must… be… the… tallest-tree-ever!” said Gemma. It seemed that with each flight of stairs, her legs were shouting louder for her to stop and plant herself, to become a part of the tree and grow roots. It was not soon after that, on step number 5,040 for her (and 10,080 for Milo), that she hit her head on a wooden board. She lifted it up and saw the dim glow of light above her. It was a trap door. They had finally reached the top.



They crawled up out of the stairwell and shut the trap door behind them. After a moment of cheering and exhausted high-fives, they looked around at their new surroundings, happy to be out of the dark and done with stairs. It was a circular room with a tall cylinder in the center. A large lantern was held fast on top of it. The walls and ceiling were covered by what looked like a large patchwork quilt. Only a wooden skeleton frame made it a room and kept the cloth from falling on them. Milo hopped onto the cylinder and noticed that there was a knob for the lantern (a lemur’s eyes adjust to the dark much faster than a human’s in cases such as this). With a shrug, Milo turned the lantern on.



The room began to shake. Instead of a small light, a huge flame had erupted from the lantern. The quilt began to rise over their heads. It reminded Gemma of her mother tucking her in at night. She would take the sheet on Gemma’s bed and lift it up swiftly, then let it float down gently onto Gemma. But this time the quilt kept rising. Gemma held onto the nearest wooden post and braced herself. The walls of quilt expanded outward and upward towards the night sky. The moon hit both of their faces as the room was pushed up and off of the top of the tree.

It is easy to understand why Gemma had not realized it sooner, as this was the first time she had ever been inside a hot air balloon.

11. Salty
The thing about riding in a mysterious air balloon through the dark starry night, is that you do not get to decide where it goes. This might have worried most people and most lemurs, but Gemma and Milo laid down for the night, too exhausted to think. The basket of the balloon was large and thick enough that the cold sky air didn’t bother them. Gemma asked Milo if he’d like to cuddle up and got an enthusiastic nod in return. Soon, they fell asleep, nestled up, and cozier than anyone had a right to be inside a floating hot air balloon.



Gemma dreamed of the night her mom took her to the waterfall. She remembered the glistening stream. She pictured the bright stars shining in the sky. The mud. The gold. And her mother. “The stuff of dreams,” she murmured in her sleep. There were still parts that she couldn’t remember from that night. It had been so long ago. She had tried not to think about it. The days that followed, the days after her parents went away, were even more of a blur. She had been given a tearful goodbye and put on a train north. After that she was passed to and fro and ushered from here to there by friends of her parents. Some called themselves aunts or uncles and bragged about how far back they go. Others told her remarkable and dramatic stories of how they met her parents. Usually it was a grand adventure that Gemma was too young to remember or too not-yet-born to have been there. There was a gruff man with extensive knowledge of plants, a set of twins who were born in the desert region or Astronia and longed to go back, and an archeologist who had only met her parents a few times, but was excited that they had asked her for a favor. Gemma could remember at least a dozen of them. More than that, she remembered the one thing they all seemed to agree on: they wouldn’t tell Gemma a thing about where her parents had gone. Whenever she asked, they would tense up like a cold clam in an ice bath. “It’s not my business to say,” said a particularly chatty woman, who certainly thought everything else was her business, and who continued on with a story about her sister’s broken foot.



It was the young archeologist who finally dropped Gemma off by carriage next to a long, warped dock on the edge of Harbortown.



“This is where I leave you,” said the archeologist, unloading Gemma’s bags. “I have so many things I’d like to discuss with your parents. Do tell them that I said I ‘hello’! You will won’t you?” she asked.



Gemma looked up with a blank expression.



“When… you see them next I mean…” added the archeologist, realizing her mistake and beginning to panic. “Which, I’m sure will be soon. Or… you know… sooner than you think at least!” she said, digging up a smile from a time she had meant it, dusting it off, and offering it up to Gemma as genuine.



“I will,” said Gemma. The carriage rode off and Gemma sat on the edge of the dock, dangling her feet over the edge. She always loved staring at the water. It calmed her and called to her at the same time. If she had stared any longer she would have fancied a swim, even then. But, a familiar voice, the first familiar voice she had heard in weeks, called out to her.



“This cannot be my Gemma,” bellowed her Uncle Horace. His tree trunk arms lifted her onto her feet and then right off them again, in what was, to date, the best hug she had ever gotten. “My Gemma is as tiny as a rabbit. This young lady is much too grown and distinguished to be my Gemma.” He squeezed her tightly and Gemma felt the weeks of travel leave her in a puff of salty breath.



“Where have my parents gone to?” she asked, hearing then that she was crying. “When can I go home?”



Uncle Horace set her down and crouched until they were eye to eye.



“I don’t know where they will be,” answered Horace. “And the truth is neither do they.”



Gemma wiped the tears from her eyes. The first honest answer she had gotten in weeks, terrible as it was, gave her strength she hadn’t expected.



Horace grabbed her bags and started walking towards the far end of the dock to a row of three boats.



“As for a home, mine is the sea. Come, let me show you around,” he said.



Gemma spent the next few years traveling the world with her Uncle Horace. For the first few months she stopped at every port to ask if there had been word from her parents. Soon it became less frequent, until, finally, she stopped asking altogether. Instead, she focused on her uncle’s lessons, each building on the last. First, she learned the ways of the sea, learning how to clean the boat. Then, to repair it. Navigation came easiest of all. On land, her uncle taught her about new cultures, new foods, and new skills. She spent months learning accounting in Far Roeth. She learned trading and negotiation in Marlington. Tracking in Greenworth. Fighting in Tarpith. Her uncle showed her the wonders that her parents had kept secret from her. By the time she was ready to be a captain herself she had learned everything there was to learn about a seafaring life. But, it was waking up from a peaceful sleep on the floor of the hot air balloon that she realized the biggest lesson he had taught her. Gemma had learned to make any place her home.

 12. Hidden
The hot air balloon sailed over a snow-topped mountain just as the sun was coming up. Milo asked to be picked up to see the view. He sat on Gemma’s shoulders and looked out over the landscape, the full view of everything around them. Past the mountain there were rolling green hills as far they both could see.



On the horizon, the last point before the earth curved away from view, Gemma caught a glimpse of something shining. As the balloon moved closer, she realized it was the glint of the sun hitting water. It was a beautiful lake and it was getting larger by the second. It was growing, not just because they were moving over it, but because they were also dropping towards it! The balloon started falling, slow and smooth, towards the lake.



In the very center, there was a circle that wasn’t shining with the sun’s reflection. No water. It was a circle of dry land. The water was held back by a stone wall, and in the center of the circle there was a small silver dome. When you put it all together: the lake, the circle, and the dome, it looked like a bullseye, and they were right on target. The balloon cleared both the water and the wall, and touched down onto the dirt floor. It kicked up some dust and stopped just in front of the silver dome.



“Seems like this is our stop,” said Gemma.



Gemma and Milo stepped out of the balloon by unlatching a thin wicker door. She hadn’t seen the door in the dark of Willow’s tree, which was a lucky thing, since opening it then would have led nowhere good.



“What do you think it is, Milo?” asked Gemma, staring straight up the slope of the dome. It was made up of curved panels. Each one stretched to a hole on top, a little closer to the side where they stood. Gemma and Milo split up and walked around the base from opposite directions. She ran her hand along the side panels, hoping that she was missing something, hoping that there was a way in that she hadn’t yet spotted. When Milo passed her on the other side with a shrug, Gemma was more confused than ever. They finished their loops just to be certain.



“How are we supposed to get in?” she asked.



Milo pointed to the hole above them and got into a crouching position.



Gemma asked with concern, “Are you sure?”



Milo nodded and set his sights on the hole.



“Okay then,” she said. Gripping him by the fur on his back and winding up. “Good… LUCK!” Gemma flung Milo through the air as high as she could. He set his arms out straight ahead to aid his flight. But, barely a second later, Milo hit the side of the dome with a THUD, and came sliding back down, screeching against the metal. He dropped down next to Gemma and shook his head. All he could do was look up with a frown.



“May I hug you?” asked Gemma. Milo nodded and got a squeeze from Gemma that made him instantly smile.



“It was a great try,” she said. “But there must be another way in. Not everyone has a high-flying friend like you.” Gemma reached out and touched the side of the dome again. She knocked on the thick metal. “We can’t go through, there’s no door.” She looked up at the hole that Milo had tried to reach. “And we can’t go over it. What does that leave us?”



Milo looked down at his feet. That’s when she spotted a small hole. It was just like the holes they had seen inside the cave on the Forgotten Island. He jumped up and down and pointed until Gemma saw it. She recognized it instantly, not just from the cave, but also from the jungle so long ago, where she met the golden mole.



“That’s it!” she exclaimed. “We need to go under, like a mole would! That’s why the wall is holding back the water. So we can dig!”



Milo and Gemma dug with their hands for a long while. In fact, they spent the whole day digging. They only took breaks for food and water, both of which were running low. By the start of dusk, they had dug below the side of the dome, and finally poked through on the other side. A small pile of dirt started to form inside the dome, along the edge, as Gemma and Milo’s hole got bigger and bigger. When it was wide enough, Milo crawled through and dug from inside. Within minutes Gemma was able to pull herself through with enough space to be comfortable. She popped up and looked around. It was like nothing she’d ever seen.



“What is this place, Milo?” Gemma asked. Milo couldn’t answer her because he was a lemur, but equally so, because he had no idea. It had taken them exactly two shakes of a lamb’s tail to look around, since there was really only one object inside, if you don’t count them and their pile of dirt, Dear Friend. It was an enormous wooden tube, set on a complicated structure and angled up towards the hole in the dome. Without a word more, they both walked towards it.



The light of the day was fading and it would be dark in a few minutes. Gemma touched the tube. She saw a much smaller tube attached at the low end, facing up towards them. And she saw a set of dials. It was then that she realized what it was.



“This is a telescope!” she exclaimed. “My mom showed me how to use one when I was little. It’s bigger than any one I’ve ever seen in real life, though.”



But, she had seen one that large in a book called The Extraordinarily Essential Guide to Modern Marvels. It belonged to her uncle’s friend Martha Groundgrable, the “second-best adventurer around”, as her uncle would call her. As the two of them recounted tales from their journeys across the Eight Seas, Gemma would read the massive book quietly. She had seen a room like this before. Only, it was filled with dozens of people, all boring looking, Gemma remembered. And the telescope in the center was made of a shiny metal. Still, she recognized the set up well.



“Do you know where we are? This is an observatory!” she said to Milo. Milo smiled and nodded like he had known all along, but Dear Friend, he had not.



Gemma now knew that the small tube was actually an eyepiece. “That’s where you look through,” she explained. “And you move these dials to move the big tube all around to look at different spots in the sky. And this book…” Gemma picked up a book that was resting on a small platform near the eyepiece. “… well I’m not sure what this book is, actually.”



The cover was black, without any words. She thumbed through the pages and it was more of the same. Black and blank.



“I don’t get it,” she wondered, “what’s the point of a book with nothing inside. But as the sunlight left the observatory, and the little bit of light that was peeking through the hole in the top fluttered away, something changed. The cover started to shine in a thousands little dots. They were stars. A galaxy’s worth. Gemma opened up the book and found that the pages had stars now too, lit up to show constellations.  Each constellation had their name underneath, and numbers beside them.



Gemma knew that the numbers were settings, and that turning the dials to those numbers would show her a constellation when she looked through the eyepiece. Her mom had taught her well.



“Cetus” she read aloud. That’s the sea monster constellation.”



Milo looked scared and hid behind her leg. Gemma couldn’t help but chuckle.



“Oh, there’s nothing to be scared of, Milo. A constellation is just a group of stars. Ancient explorers drew the stars that they saw and then connected the dots to make the shapes of animals and objects. Mom always used to say they were drawing in the sky.”



Milo relaxed and nodded along again.



“Most of them are fantastical creatures. I used to know them all,” she continued as she flipped through the pages. “Monoceros, that’s the unicorn constellation… and this one is Phoenix. Let’s try that one!”



Gemma moved the dials carefully until they read the same as the numbers that were glowing brightly on the page. As she turned the knobs, the entire dome and telescope spun round slowly. Milo had to grab on to the base to not fall over. Next the telescope tilted up until it pointed almost right above their heads. The hole followed the telescope in a mystical way. The curved metal slats that made up the dome moved and slid around to make sure of it.



When it stopped moving, Gemma looked through the eyepiece with wonder.



“My gosh, Milo! There it is. And more clear than ever!” Gemma said with a smile.



Milo looked through next and couldn’t hide his excitement either. As he looked at the constellation, Gemma searched through the book once again. It was on the 24th page that she froze. Her fingers stopped on the constellation she was meant to find, and she hadn’t heard its name since the night her mother left.

 13. Blurry
“The stuff of dreams,” said Gemma’s mom. Young Gemma looked up at the point in the sky where her mom was looking. It was the first constellation that she had ever been shown, when she was a little smaller and her hair a little lighter.



“Pyxis,” Gemma whispered.



“That’s right,” said her mom. “It’s the mariner’s compass. Do you know what that means?”



Gemma looked at her mom and thought. She always liked the name “Pyxis,” even if it was almost impossible to say when she had a loose tooth. But, she had never thought about what it meant. She shook her head.



“A mariner is someone who sails the ocean,” Gemma’s mom said.



“So… like a sailor?” Gemma asked.



“Exactly. And a compass is a tool. It helps you figure out which way to go.”



Gemma looked back at the constellation. It looked to her like it was twinkling. She had never seen anything so beautiful.



“We’re going to be sending you to stay with your Uncle Horace at his harbor. He’ll teach you how to sail. But, I need you to remember something…” said Gemma’s Mom.



Gemma stared even harder at Pyxis. Trying not to look at her mom.



“No matter where you go, Pyxis will be there to help guide you. It will always be with you. Just like your father and I,” she finished.



The stars turned blurry through Gemma’s tears.



Inside an observatory in the middle of a lake, fifteen years later, Gemma knew what she had to do. She repeated the numbers to herself that were next to the drawing of Pyxis inside the book. She turned the dials on the telescope carefully, one then the other. Slowly, the telescope spun around, and it’s great tube tilted downward. When it stopped, Gemma knew that it had found her constellation.



She knew exactly what she would see when she peered inside the eyepiece. The brightest biggest image of Pyxis she had ever seen. But, what she didn’t expect was the soft *thud* of something dropping at her feet. A silver scroll rolled until it tapped the front of her shoes. She pulled away and picked it up, barely noticing the scattered holes around the telescope from golden moles.



Milo twisted his head and looked up underneath the dials. He pointed to a secret compartment that had held the scroll, tucked away out of sight. When Gemma turned the telescope to Pyxis, it had opened up and dropped the telescope, without a care for any lemurs that might have been hit by it, Milo noted.



“A secret within a secret,” thought Gemma.



“What do you think it is, Milo?” she asked. But before even his eager hands could grab the scroll to look, they were surprised again by a noise. This time, it was one they had heard before.



It gave her a peculiar feeling, to hear the familiar jingle of her brass bell, inside some new and odd place. Gemma turned to see her old friend, who was not a friend at all, the jaguar. He was prowling around the hole that they had climbed in from.



Gemma clutched the scroll and stepped in front of Milo to protect him.



“You again! How in the world did you get here?” she asked. That’s when Gemma realized that it wasn’t just the bell she recognized. The bell was attached to her purple ribbon again, wrapped around the jaguar’s neck.



Gemma took a step back. “But… how is that possible? How’d you get my ribbon back?” she asked.



“I would have introduced us all properly…” said a voice from the tunnel. “But this hole is a bit more snug than I expected.



“That voice…” said Gemma.



Gemma and Milo stood wide-eyed, as Charles Bucket, with his hat on his head, crawled out of the hole.



“What have you got there?” asked Charles.

 14. Combative
“I’ve been meaning to thank you. My jaguar had grown quite fond of his ribbon back, and he’s happy to have it back,” said Charles Bucket.



The jaguar paced back and forth and then sat next to Charles Bucket. Gemma did what many people do when they are scared and have a thousand important questions going through their mind. She asked a completely different one.



“What’s your jaguar’s name, anyway?” she asked, trying to act as cool as possible.



Charles Bucket raised his chest indignantly. “Name? Why would he have a name? He’s mine and he does what I want, that’s all you need to know.”



Gemma had an instinct to clutch the scroll even harder.



“What do you want?” she asked.



Charles Bucket took a step forward. “Do you know what it is that you’re holding, Gemma?”



Gemma answered more honestly than she expected.



“No! No one will tell me and it’s starting to get annoying,” she snapped.



Charles Bucket walked over to the telescope, just as Gemma and Milo backed away from it. He looked through the eyepiece and smiled as he spoke.



“Ah, Pyxis, of course.” He turned back towards Gemma. “Do you know why the explorers of old made constellations? It was a way of communicating. Painting with the stars.” he said, answering his own question, a habit that Gemma never liked.



“Yeah, I know,” she said with an attitude. “And painting is a way of speaking with your hands.”



Charles Bucket smiled large. “I see you’ve met Willow. Did you know that she made what you’re holding?” Gemma tapped her shoulder and Milo jumped on.



Gemma wondered aloud, “Willow drew it? You mean, it’s a …”



“A map, my dear Gemma,” Charles Bucket finished.



“The most greatest treasure in the world…” Gemma whispered.



Charles Bucket took an angry step towards her. “Ugh! Your parents called it that! It’s a childish name.”



“My parents?” she asked.



“The map holds secrets. Secrets they search for even now. A foolish endeavor without the map. And now I finally have it!”



Except, Dear Friend, he did not have it. Because feeling that something is yours, and it being yours are two very different things.



Gemma rubbed the scroll with her fingers.



“This was what my parents were trying to find? This is why they left?” she said, looking off into the distance, which, in this case, was the wall of the observatory three feet from her. “It was so long ago, I can hardly…”



“Oh what does it matter!” Charles interrupted. “You led me to it and now it’s mine!”



Gemma was beginning to understand. Connecting the dots like stars in a constellation.



“You’ve been following me,” she shot back.



“Of course I have. In the Dusty Rust Busket,” he answered.



Gemma and Milo smirked at each other.



“It really is the worst name,” she quipped.



“What was that?” he asked.



“Oh nothing,” she answered, looking innocent.



“Enough! Give it here!” With the jaguar by his side, Charles Bucket lurched forward to grab the scroll from Gemma. Without a word or a thought, Gemma tucked it behind her back. Milo swung down, swiped it from her, and ran to the other side of the observatory. It was, to that day, the best handoff they’d ever pulled off.



Charles Bucket slowly approached Milo, taking his time to make sure the lemur couldn’t escape past him. Meanwhile, the jaguar went after Gemma, backing her away until she bumped into the side of the dome. They were cornered, the both of them.



Gemma felt something poking her in the back. Spinning around, she saw that there was a plaque, and below it, protruding from the wall, the hollow base of a switch. The jaguar was closing in, and she hadn’t much time to read the words. The writing was faded, but she was still able to make out the letters.



“Before you leave…” she read, “please seal the door. Protect the secret, ever more.”



“It’s another riddle!” Gemma said aloud. Lucky for her, and for Milo, and for all of us, Dear Friend, Charles Bucket did not pay attention to her words. He had only the scroll on his mind.



“There’s nowhere to go, little monkey,” said Charles Bucket as he reached out to grab it. Milo shook with fear, clutching the scroll against his beating chest.



Gemma looked at Milo. Her heart hurt, seeing him scared. She had less than no time to figure out the riddle, but it wasn’t the words that struck her. It was the switch. All that was needed to pull the switch would be a long thin instrument. A tiny satchel hung at her side, and opened with ease. It used to be her brass bell that she kept inside, but with it hanging around the neck of an approaching jaguar, she found something else instead. Something long. Something thin.

She pulled out Willow’s paintbrush and locked it in place on the switch.



Charles Bucket grabbed Milo by the arm harshly and reached for the scroll. Gemma’s eyes grew wide with anger.



“He’s not a monkey!” shouted Gemma. “He’s a ring-tailed lemur!”



Charles Bucket turned to Gemma, still holing Milo.



She pulled down on the switch until there was a loud click. “And he did not give you permission to touch him.”



A low rumble began to shake the observatory. The jaguar’s eyes darted back and forth, looking for the source of it. The noise grew as the walls of the observatory started to creak and shimmy. All four sets of eyes found the hole that they had crawled in from. Water shot up to the top of the observatory. Smaller streams came rushing up out of the golden mole holes. Faster than Gemma could understand why, the lake water was filling the observatory.

 15. Sneaky
The water spun friends and enemies alike. Gemma, Milo, Charles Bucket, and the jaguar were caught up in the whirlpool as the water filled the dome. The scroll, knocked loose from Milo’s hand, was swimming freely too. Charles Bucket reached out to grasp it but missed by just a hair. The jaguar, used to meals on the run, tried to bite for it with his teeth. He missed it by a hair so small that it is smaller than the smallest hair on your head, after a haircut. Gemma tried to steady herself by grabbing on to the large tube of the telescope with her arm, but she slipped away. She whirled and swirled and began to feel dizzy. Moments later, as she came back around, she grabbed at the telescope with both arms in desperation and got hold. Milo was trying desperately to swim against the current to reach the scroll.



Charles Bucket grabbed the jaguar and flung him towards the scroll. The jaguar let out a terrible yelp as he was tossed around by the paw. Milo ducked under the water and made one last attempt to reach the scroll. When he popped back up, Gemma saw him, with his sopping face and big yellow eyes.



She didn’t care about the scroll. She didn’t care about Charles Bucket or Willow or rabbits or ships. She didn’t even care about “the most greatest treasure in the world.” Milo was her friend. There was no greater treasure than a friend like Milo. He’d stuck with her though it all, and it was her job to keep him safe. As he spun by her, Gemma caught him by the arm and slowly pulled him towards the telescope.



“Forget the scroll, Milo! We need to get out of here.” Gemma pushed Milo up the telescope and then hugged it tight. Milo started climbing towards the top, which Gemma knew housed a great glass lens. It was still pointed to the hole in the top of the dome, and that’s where they needed to get. As they reached the rim Gemma looked back down. Charles Bucket and the jaguar were thrashing around in the water, desperately looking for the scroll.



With their feet on the glass lens, Gemma and Milo lifted themselves up and out of the observatory. By then, Charles Bucket and his enraged jaguar were climbing up behind them. They saw that the lake had flooded the dry circle of land where they once landed, and the balloon was nowhere in sight. Only that small space at the very top of the observatory was above the water. No bigger than a trampoline. It was shrinking at a rapid pace. And soon they would be joined by unfriendliest of guests.



Then Gemma saw something that she had not counted on.



“Look!” yelled Gemma.



The Dusty Rust Busket, almost as if on cue, was sailing on its own towards them, riding the waves of water. It was a poorly named. It was cluttered. And dusty. And absolutely rusty. But at that moment, Gemma had never seen a more beautiful boat. She tapped her shoulder and Milo swung up. She bent her knees and readied herself as it approached.



“One…Two…Three!” Gemma and Milo jumped aboard, knocking over cans and keepsakes and trinkets. In a flash, she was up and at the steering wheel, turning the boat as far away from the dome as she could. And it was a lucky thing too, because Charles Bucket and his jaguar were a mere seconds behind them. As the boat pulled away, safely out of reach. Charles Bucket stood up and stared at Gemma. His jaguar shook his whole body, spewing drops of water like a sprinkler. Gemma heard her grandma’s bell jingle once again. The sea wind on her damp clothes made her cold. But it was Charles Bucket’s smile that made her shiver.



Gemma found a stream that fed the lake and made their escape. It gave way to a narrow but strong river which, soon, would open up into the sea.



The stars were all Gemma needed to navigate the seas, and later that night she would charter a course to Harbortown. She had much and more to discuss with her Uncle Horace. The adventure, it seemed, was over.



“We made it, Milo,” she said, steering the boat like it had always been hers. She wove around rocks and trees that jutted out over the river like arms. Milo smiled and raised a finger to get her attention, but Gemma was busy in thought.



“I mean, we didn’t get the scroll, but we’re safe. And that’s all that matters,” she said.



Milo coughed loudly, trying to grab Gemma’s attention again.



“Although, we still don’t know what was on that map, even after all this time,” she continued.



Milo waved his arms at her, but she kept her gaze on the river, as any good captain would.

“And now Charles Bucket has it, and… can we talk about him for a second? Can you believe what he…”



Milo jumped up and down and squeaked as loudly as he could, finally drawing her confused stare.



“What is it, Milo?” she asked. Standing in front of Gemma, Milo raised his tail from behind his back. It was clasping a shiny, slightly wet, silver scroll.



There was a brief, and beautiful pause.



“Milo!” Gemma screamed with a smile. “You got the scroll! You wonderful, brilliant, little lemur!”



Milo smiled too big for his face and blushed underneath his fur. He handed her the scroll, but with his tail. You might say he “tailed” it to her, if that word didn’t already have another meaning.



“Looks like we’re finally going to see what it is,” Gemma said, not able to contain her excitement even a little.



Gemma taped her shoulder and Milo hopped up to see. With their faces towards the river, as the Dusty Rust Busket opened up into the vast sea, Gemma opened the scroll. Her smile turned to surprise and wonder.



“It… can’t be…” she said. “All those years ago…”

 16. Illuminating
Young Gemma’s tears blurred her eyes. The waterfall became nothing more than sparkling lights cascading down into the stream. Her parents would be leaving her, and she didn’t know for how long.



“What are you going to look for?” Gemma demanded. “Tell me what it is!”



Gemma’s mom let out a sigh. She kept her eyes on the constellation Pyxis as she spoke.



“What if I told you that there are magical creatures, Gemma. Real life magical creatures,” she said.



“Like, unicorns?” Gemma asked, drying her eyes. Her mom’s question had thrown her, and she was definitely going to need more information before returning to her fit of crying.



“Yes, unicorns. And sea monsters and centaurs and griffins and mermaids and so many more,” Gemma’s mom answered.



Gemma’s eyes were wide with wonder. These were some of her favorite things to talk about in the world. But, rarely, were they brought up by people who were not her.



“And what if I told you there’s a map that tells you how to find them all? What would you say?” asked her mom.



Gemma thought long and hard. Her tears already drying in the corners of her eyes.



“I’d say that’s the most greatest treasure in the world.”



Gemma’s mom turned to her daughter and laughed.



“I think that’s what we’ll call it then,” she said, crouching down and hugging her daughter. “We will go find the treasure and come back to you. But Gemma?”



“Yes,” she answered, hugging back with all her might.



“You will always be our greatest discovery. There is nothing more precious to us than you.” Gemma’s mom held her out and looked her in the eyes. “That’s why we named you Gemma.”



Tears found Gemma again, years later, on the deck of The Dusty Rust Busket.



“I forgot,” she said aloud. “I didn’t think she… could it really be true?”



Milo’s tail curled around her neck as he leaned in closely to the map.



It covered all the world and the Eight Seas. There were drawings of fantastical creatures and landmarks and dotted paths to sail them there. It was a map to magical creatures. It was the treasure that her family had been searching for since she was a child.



“Wonders unseen,” whispered Gemma. “And everyone is looking for them.”



Gemma licked her finger and held it up to check for wind. She cleared off a small table on the deck and laid the map out, holding it down with a metal gear and clay mug. Searching through a box of cloth, Gemma tore off a thin strip of ribbon and made a second braid in her hair. At the helm of The Dusty Rust Busket, Captain Gemma turned the ship towards the Cascade Sea.

Milo climbed onto the bow of the boat and felt the cool air on his face.



“Everyone’s looking for them,” Gemma shouted over the sea. “And we’re going to find them.”

 17. Open
On Marsan Island, in the mild southern waters of the Cascade Sea, Gemma and Milo trekked up a grassy hill. The wind was blowing them forward, pushing them towards the top. A dozen small streams lined with mossy rocks wove in and around the grass at their feet. The blue sky connected to the sea all around them.



They had traveled for weeks, through harsh waves and fierce storms. They were the kind that only an experienced sea captain could navigate. Lucky for us, Gemma was that, and more. She and her “first primate” Milo, as he was now officially called, had made it to their first stop: a small island, that no-one had ever heard of, but someone had named a lifetime ago. An island that only one map in the world could take you to. There were few alive who knew it by name, and fewer still who knew how to pronounce it. As it happens, Dear Friend, I must admit that I am not one of them.



Gemma held the map out in front of her. She enlisted a trick that she had learned soon after inspecting it. For reasons unknown to her, when Gemma pulled on a section of the map, it would expand, becoming larger and more clear. New words would appear with finer details. It was beyond the abilities of any map that Gemma had ever seen. It was how she navigated the Strait of Hornsway. It was how she found the secret turn in the rocky waters of the Mosaic Sea. It was impossibly magical. But then, most of what had happened since Gemma started her adventure was, too. And according to her map, there was something even more magical up ahead. Something worth protecting with an ancient guild of explorers, shielding with riddles, and hiding away on a secret map.



Gemma and Milo came to the top, the crest, of the hill. The wind blew past her face and then stopped as she looked down on a green valley. The rolling hills were breathtaking. But they were nothing compared to what she saw next. Down the slope, in a small bright clearing, twelve unicorns were grazing.



For the first time in her life, Gemma was speechless. Milo was equally speechless, but much more used to it. As they walked towards the unicorns, they couldn’t know what lay ahead, but then again, that’s always the way with adventurers.



And so, Dear Friend, now the story has been told, for the first time, but maybe not the last.

That, as a handsome mustachioed sea merchant once said, is up to you.

Epilogue One
The harbormaster of Harbortown was well-known for being selective. He looked after well the boats of locals, friends, and those who paid him for protection. Uncle Horace was all three. Given the bounty of loot he had discovered in a wreck somewhere in the south current of the Azul Sea, he’d thought it best to slip the harbormaster an extra twenty starlings to keep a watchful eye. There would be no bandits or young mischief-makers disturbing his boat, The Singing Nomad, for as long as he held port.

So, it was at the Starlight Tavern, enjoying a pheasant pot-pie, that a sealed letter found Horace, delivered by a local messenger girl.

She waited for a rare moment between bites to make herself known at the far end of his booth.

“Excuse me sir, are you Captain Horace—“

“Captain Horace is fine,” he interrupted. “What can I help you with?’ he added kindly.

“Been holding onto this for you for a good week now,” she said, handing him the letter. It was a silver material that shined almost to a glow. “It looks important. Never seen anything like it before come this way.”

Horace’s first name was written on the front in an impressive form of cursive long forgotten by the sailors and merchants with whom he did business. He flipped it over and inspected the wax seal, which had bright hues of green and blue and orange and pink. It was imprinted with a circle, which had a great tree in the center.

He slid a short candle over and pushed aside the almost empty pot-pie tin. Horace reached for a the knife on his belt and opened the letter with ease. The young girl watched his eyes as he scrolled through the words:

“Dear Unknown Explorers,

It is not lightly that I break my solitude to write you. As you know, I have been charged with keeping a secret from long ago. In truth, I keep but a part of this secret. A piece of a path.

I was informed that this secret has been under attack from a former member of our guild. In times such as these it is my duty to report on any happenings. Three weeks ago, I was visited by someone on their path to the secret. They were both determined and capable of finding it.

I find it equally important to report that it was not a former member of our guild, nor was it a current member. It was a young girl named Gemma, and her lemur companion.

Do with this information what you will. Feeling that I have fulfilled my duties, I shall depart from my post and return to exploring. There are many maps still yet to draw.”

The signature was written with the most beautiful penmanship that Horace had ever seen.

The young girl noted when he was finished and took a shy step forward.

“I don’t mean to pry sir, but we’ve all been wondering what was in the letter. Was it a secret message? The seal was a tree of some kind right? Is that part of the secret? I really don’t mean to pry sir, but…”

Horace raised his hand slowly. He reached inside a pouch at his waist with the other hand and placed five starlings on the table for her.

“You’ve done your job very well, friend. And I thank you for it…”

He stood up from the table and rolled the letter into a large sack on his shoulder.

“But secrets cannot survive such questions.”

As he walked past her, he bowed his head slightly and put on his tricorn hat.

“And the tree that you speak of is called a Willow.” he finished.

With that, Horace left the tavern and set off to find his first mate to ready the crew for an early departure.

 Epilogue Two
Gemma’s father pulled out his weathered tome and flipped to the worn section with scribbled drawings from ancient caves. It was the same as it was the last time he checked. And the time before that. And each of the fourteen times that he had checked on their way to the ruins.

He placed the book on the ground and held the pages down with two odd shaped rocks. He pointed to the east and noticed the same hills that were drawn on the pages at his feet. He pointed to the west and found the small forest, exactly where it should be. This was the place.

“Any luck?” Gemma’s mom asked, as she cut through some brush and caught up.

“Not yet,” he replied. “But this must be the place. These ancient texts describe a creature that could only be one thing…”

“They haven’t lived here for centuries, Arthur,” she said.

He glanced at the book one more time then lowered his hands.

“It’s here. I can feel it,” he insisted.

“Just like you felt it in the Slithering Sea. And just like you felt it on Mount Thorn? And just like—”

“This is different, Jean,” he interrupted with a frown.

She came and stood by his side. Her tone changed.

“I believe it,” she said, grabbing his hand.

He looked around the stone ruins.

“I don’t know what I expected: that some mythical creature would be waiting for us with bells on?”

Jean smiled. “We’ll just keep looking. I’m sure there’s some page in that book that you haven’t read yet that tells you exactly where to find them.”

They both laughed, knowing that there was no page in the book that hadn’t been read a dozen times, and then a dozen times more. Arthur sighed and bent down to pick up the book. As he lifted it up to his chest, the rocks tumbled down and caught his eye. He stared at the ground by his feet for a few seconds. He stared at the exact same spot that he had covered up with his book.

“Jean…”

“Yes?” she replied.

Arthur didn’t have to say a word. She followed his eyes until they both saw a footprint that had only ever been seen in drawings. The footprint of a phoenix.

 Epilogue Three
Charles Bucket arrived back at his mansion with debris and muck in his hair that he was yet to notice. His jaguar followed behind, with his head down and his paws sore. His bell was no longer jingling, having been filled with dirt and specks of leaf.

Charles called for his servant and dropped his hat onto the ground next to the door.

“Sanders!” he shouted.

A shorter, stout man came rushing from three rooms away and skidded to a halt in front of the pair.

“Sir, are you all right?” he asked with a shocked face.

“Nevermind that. Draw me a bath,” Charles barked.

Sanders, usually quick to do as he was told, stood there for a moment with all the questions in his head.

“NOW!” shouted Charles Bucket.

Sanders nodded and rang a bell from the mahogany stand at his side. Two older servants came shuffling in next to him.

“Go and make Captain Bucket a bath. Extra heat and extra soap.” They bowed and shuffled down the great hall behind them.

“Sanders, take down a list,” Charles started. Sanders whipped out a piece of paper from his vest pocket and pulled out a pencil, ready to write. “I need a new boat. No trickery this time. A vessel worthy of me. The largest you can buy. And get me a crew of sailors, NO… make that pirates. And bring me Professor Roderick. I require something… different.”

Sanders nodded and hid the paper back into his pocket and then reached down to grab the jaguar’s collar. The jaguar nuzzled up to Sanders with a small purr. Sanders gave him a secret pet and smile, making sure that Charles could not see.

“I’ll take him back to the South Wing,” Sanders said.

Charles made off down the great hall towards the baths with a half wave and hardly a grunt.

Sanders led the jaguar to the grand door at the entrance of the South Wing. He pushed it open with his free hand to reveal an enormous chamber. It was filled with ten separate pens. Toucans, lizards, bison, giraffes, lions, armadillos, hawks, horses, and zebras where just some of the hundreds of creatures that occupied the caged habitats. With a technique that he had learned the hard way, Sanders opened the gate to the nearest pen and swiftly shut it behind the jaguar, who was greeted by his family with purrs and nuzzles and licks. Sanders reached into his other vest pocket and took out a snack, tossing it inside to the jaguars and their cubs.

Then, he hurried out of the South Wing and shut the grand door behind him. He would spend the afternoon sending for various merchants and traders, and his least favorite person in the world, Professor Roderick
